1. Recent Adv Inflamm Allergy Drug Discov. 2025;19(2):259-268. doi: 
10.2174/0127722708310247240718100251.

A Comparative Study of Dexamethasone and Methylprednisolone in COVID-19 
Patients: Clinical Outcomes and Inflammatory Markers.

Moghaddam AZ(1), Soleimani M(2), Imani B(3), Hejazi S(4), Taherynejad M(1), 
Kabiri M(5), Emadzadeh M(6), Ravanshad S(2).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Lung Diseases Research Center, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(6)Clinical Research Development Unit, Ghaem Hospital, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, prompted by 
SARS-CoV-2, has created complicated health crises. An excessive inflammatory 
response and cytokine storm characterize severe COVID-19. Corticosteroids like 
dexamethasone and methylprednisolone are used for their anti-inflammatory 
effects, but comparisons of their efficacy are lacking.
OBJECTIVE: This study seeks to rigorously assess and contrast the effectiveness 
of dexamethasone and methylprednisolone in combating COVID-19 infections.
METHODS: This retrospective clinical study evaluates the effects of these two 
corticosteroids by reviewing the files of 500 hospitalized COVID-19 patients. 
The baseline characteristics of the patients, chest CT severity score, type of 
steroid prescription, duration of hospitalization and steroid prescription, 
dosage of corticosteroid therapy, their recovery status, hospital mortality, and 
specific disease severity-associated markers, such as lactate dehydrogenase 
(LDH), complete blood count (CBC), C-reactive protein (CRP), and Erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate (ESR) were collected and compared.
RESULTS: The study found no significant difference in most disease 
severity-associated markers between the two corticosteroid groups. However, 
lower mortality rates and shortened hospital stays were significantly associated 
with dexamethasone, especially in critical patient groups. A detailed analysis 
of inflammatory markers suggested minimal differences based on the type of 
corticosteroid used.
CONCLUSION: The study indicates that dexamethasone may have some advantages in 
specific clinical outcomes. Further research needs to explore the mechanisms 
involved despite similar anti-inflammatory profiles.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0127722708310247240718100251
PMID: 40667598


2. Gen Psychiatr. 2025 Jul 13;38(4):e102055. doi: 10.1136/gpsych-2025-102055. 
eCollection 2025.

An effective short form of the 20-item University of California Los Angeles 
Loneliness Scale version 3: item response theory and network psychometrics.

Liu J(1), Chen M(2), Wu H(1), Cai H(3), Tu S(3), Lee E(4), Zhang X(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, 
USA.
(2)University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Division of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Herbert Wertheim School of 
Public Health and Human Longevity Science, UC San Diego, San Diego, California, 
USA.
(4)Division of Geriatric Psychiatry, UC San Diego, San Diego, California, USA.

Loneliness is a complex and usually unpleasant emotional response to isolation, 
which has been considered the latest global health epidemic exacerbated by the 
coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic, affecting nearly two-thirds of older adults. 
Some profound health implications carried by loneliness include depression, 
cognitive impairment, hypertension and frailty. Across the world, there is no 
consensus definition of loneliness, and its measure is based on the 
phenomenological perspective of the individual. The 20-item University of 
California Los Angeles Loneliness Scale version 3 (UCLA-20) is the most common 
measure. This scale demonstrates acceptable psychometric properties but is too 
long and complex for a phone interview. This paper addresses the increasing need 
to shorten this scale by adopting classical item response theory and network 
psychometrics to advance scale development. Through an item reduction analysis, 
we trimmed the original scale into an effective short form, which is as valid as 
the original one. With respondents' time at a premium in most research nowadays, 
this short-form scale is an efficient and practical alternative to the original 
UCLA-20.

Copyright © Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC 
BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/gpsych-2025-102055
PMCID: PMC12258266
PMID: 40667491

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


3. Front Neurol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1563040. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1563040. 
eCollection 2025.

A data-mining analysis of host solute carrier family proteins in SARS-CoV-2 
infection with reference to brain endothelial cells and the blood-brain barrier 
in COVID-19.

Fradkin T(1), Schmidt-Kastner R(1).

Author information:
(1)Schmidt College of Medicine, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, FL, 
United States.

BACKGROUND: The brain vasculature is a key player in neurological manifestations 
of COVID-19. Infection of brain endothelial cells with SARS-CoV-2 along with 
circulating cytokines may cause dysfunction of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). 
Solute carrier transporters (SLCs) in brain endothelial cells regulate substrate 
transport across the BBB. Here, it was hypothesized that transport functions of 
SLCs will be impaired by interactions with viral proteins, and subsequently, 
data-mining studies were performed.
METHODS: Virus-host protein-protein interaction data for SARS-CoV-2 infection 
were retrieved from the BioGRID database, filtered for SLCs, and then annotated 
for relevant expression in brain endothelial cells using a mouse brain 
transcriptomics database. Host SLCs expressed in brain endothelial cells were 
further explored using publicly available databases and information in the 
literature. Functional Annotation Clustering was performed using DAVID, and 
Enrichr served for pathway analysis. Substrates were retrieved from NCBI Gene. 
Links to monogenic disorders were retrieved from Online Mendelian Inheritance in 
Man™ and screened for disorders of the nervous system. Interactome data for 
viral proteins of SARS-CoV-2 were retrieved from BioGRID. Reports for host SLCs 
in viral receptor functions, viral entry mechanisms, and other major roles in 
the viral cycle were explored in databases (VThunter) and literature. 
ATP-binding cassette transporters (ABCs) were studied in parallel.
RESULTS: N = 80 host SLCs showed relevant expression in brain endothelial cells 
whereby amino acid transporter stood out. N = 24/80 host SLCs were linked to 
monogenic disorders of the nervous system. N = 9/29 SARS-CoV-2 viral proteins 
had strong links to SLCs and key functions in viral infection (e.g., interferon 
response). SLCs serving as viral receptors and with closely associated functions 
were significantly enriched among all known listed viral receptors (chi-square 
test, p = 0.001). Literature searches for host SLCs revealed involvement of a 
subset of SLCs in infection mechanisms for SARS-CoV-2 and more broadly for other 
viruses. N = 17 host ABCs were found in brain endothelial cells where they may 
serve as efflux transporters.
DISCUSSION: This hypothesis-generating work proposes a set of N = 80 host SLCs 
expressed in endothelial cells as contributors to BBB impairment after 
SARS-CoV-2 infection. Theoretically, persistent dysfunction of SLCs at the BBB, 
in particular insufficient transport of amino acids, could be one of many 
reasons for cognitive changes in long-COVID. Functions of SLCs in viral entry 
and associated roles deserve close attention.

Copyright © 2025 Fradkin and Schmidt-Kastner.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1563040
PMCID: PMC12261995
PMID: 40667466

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


4. Indoor Environ. 2025 Jun;2(2):100090. doi: 10.1016/j.indenv.2025.100090. Epub 
2025 Mar 27.

School-informed risk calculator tool for reducing the spread of respiratory 
viral infection among school-aged children.

Wilson AM(1), Lowe AA(2)(3), Amoh-Asante NAA(1), Zhan Y(1), Ashraf A(1), Gerald 
LB(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community, Environment & Policy, Mel and Enid Zuckerman College 
of Public Health, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(2)Nursing & Health Sciences Division, College of Nursing, University of 
Arizona, Tucson, USA.
(3)Asthma & Airway Disease Research Center, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(4)Office of Population Health Sciences, Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Health Affairs, University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Breathe Chicago Center, University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

School health staff need decision support for responding to respiratory viral 
outbreaks. Quantitative microbial risk assessment (QMRA) tools are an 
inexpensive and fast resource. Our objectives were to engage school districts to 
inform the development of a risk-based calculator tool, test the tool across 
hypothetical cases, and elicit feedback among school health staff. We 
administered an online survey for Kindergarten (K) - Grade 5 teachers, school 
health professionals, and other school staff to gather data about respiratory 
viral disease interventions and model parameters. A risk calculator tool was 
developed in which users choose hypothetical scenarios to estimate infection 
risk per individual and compare interventions. Three case studies (CS) were 
explored: CS1 - Rhinovirus transmission in a general education classroom with 
"poor" vs. "great" air quality, CS2 - Influenza A virus transmission in a music 
classroom with vs. without a portable air purifier, CS3 - SARS-CoV-2 
transmission in a special education classroom with vs. without open 
doors/windows. The prototype tool was presented at a national school nursing 
meeting, and attendees were surveyed on (dis)likes and anticipated tool uses. 
For the initial survey of Arizona school personnel (n = 132), the top 
respiratory viral outbreak strategies reported by teachers were hand (94 %) and 
surface hygiene (85.1 %). For all case studies, infection risks were above 
thresholds used in other contexts but were comparable to published student 
respiratory illness incidence data. At the national meeting, school nurses (n = 
12) identified potential uses including advocating for interventions to 
administrators. This work reflects a unique application of community partnership 
and QMRA to address school health decision support.

DOI: 10.1016/j.indenv.2025.100090
PMCID: PMC12263118
PMID: 40667431


5. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 24:2025.06.23.654375. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.654375.

Identifying Key Hub Genes that Attribute Varying Host Responses: A Longitudinal 
RNA-seq Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Delta and Omicron Infections.

Bajracharya D, Jansen RJ, Yan C, Ramamoorthy S.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by SARS-CoV-2, has severely impacted 
global health, with different Variants of Concern (VOCs) resulting in varied 
clinical outcomes. Among these, the Delta and Omicron variants have drawn 
significant attention due to their distinct characteristics-Delta is associated 
with higher virulence and Omicron has greater transmissibility but reduced 
severity. This study compares host immune responses to the Delta and Omicron 
variants using RNA-seq data from infected primary human airway epithelial cells. 
Both variants triggered a robust antiviral innate immune response by 2 days 
post-infection (dpi). However, Omicron was found to elicit a more rapid immune 
response, showing pathway enrichment at 1 dpi. In contrast, Delta displayed no 
immune-related pathway activation within the first 24 hours, suggesting it may 
evade early immune detection, promoting increased viral replication. By 3 dpi, 
Delta induced a more aggressive immune response, particularly in pathways 
related to cell death and pro-inflammatory signaling, such as "programmed cell 
death" and "regulation of cell death." Weighted gene co-expression network 
analysis revealed distinct immune-related genes: Delta infections were 
characterized by hub genes like MYD88 and IL1R1 involved in pro-inflammatory 
responses, HLA-A & B, NLRC5 and PSMB9 involved in antigen presentation and 
TNSF10 and IFR1 involved in pro-apoptotic processes. Conversely, Omicron 
infections were marked by hub genes such as CXCL1 and CXCL8 involved in immune 
cells recruitment, MET and LYN involved in reducing hyperinflammatory responses 
and maintaining immune balance, and IFI44, EIF2AK2 and IFIT5 responsible for the 
sensing of viral RNA among others.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.654375
PMCID: PMC12262822
PMID: 40667341


6. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 17:2025.06.16.660018. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.16.660018.

Open-science discovery of DNDI-6510, a compound that addresses genotoxic and 
metabolic liabilities of the COVID Moonshot SARS-CoV-2 Mpro lead inhibitor.

Griffen EJ, Fearon D, McGovern BL, Koekemoer L, Balcomb BH, Szommer T, Fate G, 
Robinson RP, Lefker BA, Duberstein S, Lahav N; COVID Moonshot Consortium; 
Braillard S, Vangeel L, Laporte M, Charvillon FB, MacLeod AK, Wells A, Garner P, 
Knight R, Rees P, Simon A, Jochmans D, Neyts J, Read KD, Barr H, Robinson M, Lee 
A, London N, Chodera J, von Delft F, White KM, Perry B, Sjö P, von Delft A.

The 2020 SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus pandemic highlighted the urgent need for novel 
small molecule antiviral drugs. (S)- x38 DNDI-6510 is a non-covalent SARS-CoV-2 
main protease inhibitor developed by the open science collaboration COVID 
Moonshot. Here, we report on the metabolic and toxicologic optimization of the 
lead series previously disclosed by the COVID Moonshot Initiative, leading up to 
the selection of (S)- x38 DNDI-6510 as the preclinical candidate. We describe 
the thorough profiling of the series, identifying key risks such as formation of 
genotoxic metabolites and high clearance, which were successfully addressed 
during lead optimization. In addition, we disclose the in vitro and in vivo 
evaluation of (S)- x38 DNDI-6510 in pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic models, 
exploring multiple approaches to ameliorate rodent-specific metabolic clearance, 
and show that both co-dosing of (S)- x38 DNDI-6510 with an ABT inhibitor and 
utilizing a metabolically humanized mouse model (8HUM) achieve significant 
improvements in exposure. Through comparisons of ABT co-dosing and humanized 
mouse models in efficacy experiments, we demonstrate that continuous exposure 
over cellular EC 90 is required for SARS-CoV-2 antiviral efficacy in vivo in an 
antiviral model using a mouse-adapted SARS-CoV-2 strain. Finally, (S)- x38 
DNDI-6510 was assessed in maximum tolerated dose experiments in two species, 
demonstrating significant in vivo PXR-linked auto-induction of metabolism, 
leading to the discontinuation of this compound. In summary, we report the 
successful effort to overcome series-specific AMES liabilities in a lead 
development program. Downstream optimization of existing series will require 
in-depth optimization of rodent-specific liabilities and metabolic induction 
profile.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.16.660018
PMCID: PMC12262575
PMID: 40667322


7. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 19:2023.11.30.569413. doi: 
10.1101/2023.11.30.569413.

SARS-CoV-2 NSP13 interacts with TEAD to suppress Hippo-YAP signaling.

Meng F, Kim JH, Tsai CR, Steimle JD, Wang J, Shi Y, Li RG, Xie B, Deshmukh V, 
Liu S, Li X, Martin JF.

The Hippo pathway controls organ development, homeostasis, and regeneration 
primarily by modulating YAP/TEAD-mediated gene expression. Although emerging 
studies report Hippo-YAP dysfunction after viral infection, it is largely 
unknown in the context of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
(SARS-CoV-2). Here, we analyzed RNA sequencing data from induced pluripotent 
stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs) and SARS-CoV-2-infected human lung 
samples, and observed a decrease in YAP target gene expression. In screening 
SARS-CoV-2 nonstructural proteins, we found that nonstructural protein 13 
(NSP13), a conserved coronavirus helicase, inhibits YAP transcriptional activity 
independent of the upstream Hippo kinases LATS1/2. Consistently, introducing 
NSP13 into cardiomyocytes suppresses an active form of YAP (YAP5SA) in vivo . 
Subsequent investigations on NSP13 mutants revealed that NSP13 helicase 
activity, including DNA binding and unwinding, is crucial for suppressing YAP 
transactivation. Mechanistically, TEAD4 serves as a platform to recruit NSP13 
and YAP. NSP13 likely inactivates the YAP/TEAD4 transcription complex by 
remodeling chromatin to recruit proteins, such as transcription termination 
factor 2 (TTF2), to bind the YAP/TEAD/NSP13 complex. These findings reveal a 
novel YAP/TEAD regulatory mechanism and uncover molecular insights into 
Hippo-YAP regulation after SARS-CoV-2 infection.

DOI: 10.1101/2023.11.30.569413
PMCID: PMC12262636
PMID: 40667266


8. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 25:2025.06.25.661044. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.25.661044.

Comprehensive investigation of SARS-CoV-2 intestinal pathogenesis in Drosophila.

El Kamali L, Nagy P, Girard J, Buchon N, Mavingui P, El-Kalamouni C, Osman D.

Gastrointestinal (GI) manifestations have been increasingly reported in COVID-19 
patients. Here, we use the Drosophila melanogaster midgut model to investigate 
SARS-CoV-2-induced GI pathogenesis. The fly midgut exhibits susceptibility to 
orally administered virus, resulting in disrupted epithelial architecture, 
reduced organ size, and altered visceral muscle dynamics. These effects are 
accompanied by sustained proliferation of intestinal stem cells alongside 
decreased replenishment and viability of differentiated cells. Transcriptomic 
profiling reveals biphasic perturbations in midgut gene expression, particularly 
in pathways related to lipid metabolism. Intriguingly, SARS-CoV-2 elicits a 
dichotomous effect on lipid homeostasis, with lipid droplet accumulation in the 
posterior midgut and depletion in anterior segments. Treatment with Plitidepsin, 
a COVID-19 drug candidate, mitigates most SARS-CoV-2 pathogenic features in both 
the Drosophila midgut and human pulmonary cells, while modulating basal lipid 
droplet homeostasis in uninfected conditions. These findings establish the 
Drosophila midgut as a potent model for studying SARS-CoV-2 GI pathogenesis and 
evaluating antiviral compounds.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.25.661044
PMCID: PMC12262708
PMID: 40667169


9. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 16:2025.06.13.659551. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.13.659551.

Susceptible host dynamics explain pathogen resilience to perturbations.

Park SW, Nielsen BF, Howerton E, Grenfell BT, Cobey S.

A major priority for epidemiological research in a time of anthropogenic change 
is understanding how infectious disease dynamics respond to perturbations. 
Interventions to slow the spread of SARS-CoV-2 significantly disrupted the 
transmission of other human pathogens. As interventions lifted, whether and when 
respiratory pathogens would eventually return to their pre-pandemic dynamics 
remains to be answered. Here, we present a framework for estimating pathogen 
resilience based on how fast epidemic patterns approach their pre-pandemic, 
endemic dynamics and analyze relevant time series data from Hong Kong, Canada, 
Korea, and the US. By quantifying the resilience of common respiratory 
pathogens, we are able to predict when each pathogen will eventually return to 
its pre-pandemic dynamics. Our predictions closely match the observed deviations 
(or lack thereof) from the pre-COVID dynamics of respiratory pathogens. 
Discrepancies between predicted and observed dynamics indicate the long-term 
impacts of pandemic perturbations, suggesting that some pathogens may be 
converging to a different endemic cycle. Finally, we show that the replenishment 
rate of the susceptible population is a key determinant of pathogen resilience, 
which in turn determines the sensitivity of a system to stochastic 
perturbations. Overall, our analysis highlights the persistent nature of common 
respiratory pathogens compared to vaccine-preventable infections, such as 
measles.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.13.659551
PMCID: PMC12262668
PMID: 40667140


10. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 26:2025.06.23.659362. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.659362.

A combination TLR7/8 and RIG-I agonist adjuvant reverts asthmatic allergic 
sensitization and prevents aggravated influenza infection in OVA-sensitized 
mice.

Diego JG, Burgess E, Chang LA, Prellberg M, Noureddine M, Sadek N, Chen Y, 
El-Ayache F, Laghlali G, Park SC, Yan V, Wong PT, De Geest BG, Tomalka JA, 
Schotsaert M.

Allergen-specific immunotherapy (AIT) is the only disease-modifying treatment 
currently available to treat allergy. However, it has limitations, as most 
allergens are poorly immunogenic, resulting in an AIT process that can take 
years. Therefore, adjuvant selection becomes critical to achieve a more 
efficacious therapy. Our group has developed and tested an amphiphilic TLR7/8 
agonist (IMDQ) and a RIG-I agonist (SDI) that used alone, or in combination, 
have demonstrated strong adjuvant activity for influenza and SARS-CoV-2 vaccines 
in preclinical models. Here we describe the effect of these adjuvants in the 
sensitization of preclinical models with the ovalbumin (OVA) asthmatic allergic 
model via an in-depth humoral and cellular immune profiling. We assess their 
immune skewing and tolerance inducing capacities in previously sensitized 
preclinical models with different genetic backgrounds (C57BL/6 vs. BALB/c mice). 
Moreover, we evaluate their effect in an unrelated antigenic challenge with 
influenza. Finally, we investigate the role of IgG subclasses and T-cell 
subpopulations in the protection against OVA challenge conferred by the 
combination of IMDQ and SDI. We demonstrate that OVA-immunization in combination 
with IMDQ+SDI prevents allergic sensitization via the induction of a balanced 
Type 1/Type 2 response. Furthermore, it can revert the allergic phenotype in 
mice previously sensitized with OVA-Alum, through reducing lung eosinophilia, as 
well as IL-4 and IL-5 production. However, this was dependent on genetic 
background. IMDQ+SDI sensitization also led to reduced morbidity of a secondary 
influenza challenge in OVA-sensitized mice. Finally, we demonstrated that IgG2c, 
by itself, cannot protect from allergic sensitization and that both CD4 + and 
CD8 + T-cells are needed for IMDQ+SDI prevention of eosinophil recruitment and 
activation upon intranasal OVA-challenge.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.659362
PMCID: PMC12262322
PMID: 40667012


11. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 24:2025.06.23.661172. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.661172.

PUM2 binds SARS-CoV-2 RNA and PUM1 mildly reduces viral RNA levels, but neither 
protein affects progeny virus production.

Phan N, Zaytseva Y, Lin CC, Mishra M, Sun W, Pawlica P.

Pumilio proteins (PUM1 and PUM2) are essential post-transcriptional regulators 
of gene expression found across plants, animals, and yeast. They bind Pumilio 
Response Elements (PREs) on messenger RNAs (mRNAs) to modulate mRNA stability 
and translation. PUMs have been implicated in diverse cellular processes, 
including stem cell maintenance, neurogenesis, and cell cycle regulation. They 
have also been reported to negatively regulate innate immunity genes and to 
participate in viral RNA sensing. Previous high-throughput interactome studies 
revealed that PUMs bind SARS-CoV-2 RNA. We found that SARS-CoV-2 transcripts 
contain multiple conserved PREs, some of which are preferentially bound by PUM2. 
Surprisingly, altering PUM levels does not affect the production of progeny 
virions. However, depletion of PUM1 slightly increases intracellular viral RNA 
levels, suggesting that PUM1 either plays a mild antiviral role against 
SARS-CoV-2 or regulates a host factor that promotes viral replication. Notably, 
PUM1 also negatively regulates innate immunity gene expression both at steady 
state and during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Our findings support a complex 
immunomodulatory role for PUM1, acting both as a negative regulator of innate 
immunity genes and a mild inhibitor of SARS-CoV-2 RNA accumulation. However, in 
cell culture, these roles appear negligible based on viral progeny output. 
Whether the multiple PREs found in the SARS-CoV-2 genome contribute to evasion 
of PUM1 activity remains an open question.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.661172
PMCID: PMC12262702
PMID: 40666984


12. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 25:2025.06.25.661409. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.25.661409.

The Renin-Angiotensin System Modulates SARS-CoV-2 Entry via ACE2 Receptor.

Gagliardi S, Hotchkin T, Tibebe H, Hillmer G, Marquez D, Izumi C, Chang J, Diggs 
A, Ezaki J, Suzuki YJJ, Izumi T.

The RAS plays a central role in cardiovascular regulation and has gained 
prominence in the pathogenesis of COVID-19 due to the critical function of ACE2 
as the entry receptor for SARS-CoV-2. Angiotensin IV, but not angiotensin II, 
has recently been reported to enhance the binding between the viral spike 
protein and ACE2. To investigate the virological significance of this effect, we 
developed a single-round infection assay using SARS-CoV-2 viral-like particles 
expressing the spike protein. Our results demonstrate that while angiotensin II 
does not affect viral infectivity across concentrations ranging from 40 nM to 
400 nM, angiotensin IV enhances viral entry at a low concentration but exhibits 
dose-dependent inhibition at higher concentrations. These findings highlight the 
unique dual role of angiotensin IV in modulating SARS-CoV-2 entry. In silico 
molecular docking simulations indicate that angiotensin IV was predicted to 
associate with the S1 domain near the receptor-binding domain in the open spike 
conformation. Given that reported plasma concentrations of angiotensin IV range 
widely from 17 pM to 81 nM, these levels may be sufficient to promote, rather 
than inhibit, SARS-CoV-2 infection. This study identifies a novel link between 
RAS-derived peptides and SARS-CoV-2 infectivity, offering new insights into 
COVID-19 pathophysiology and informing potential therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.25.661409
PMCID: PMC12262272
PMID: 40666850


13. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 20:2025.06.18.660454. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.18.660454.

Uncovering the Pathophysiological Pattern of Expression from Integrated Analysis 
across Uniformly Processed RNA Sequencing COVID-19 Datasets.

Cole A, Fukuda B, Dahlstrom T, Hung LH, Yeung KY.

BACKGROUND: Post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC) affects millions 
globally, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying acute COVID-19 and its chronic 
sequelae remain poorly understood.
METHODS: We performed an integrative transcriptomic analysis of three 
independent RNA-seq datasets, capturing the complete COVID-19 pathophysiology 
from health through acute severe infection to post-acute sequelae and mortality 
(n=142 total samples). We implemented a containerized analytical pipeline from 
data download, quantification, differential gene expression to uniformly process 
these three RNA-seq datasets.
RESULTS: Our analysis reveals striking molecular dichotomies contrasting disease 
phases with profound clinical implications. Acute severe/critical COVID-19 
reveals predominant enrichment of TNF-α signaling via NF-κB pathways (normalized 
enrichment score >2.5, FDR <0.001), reflecting a cytokine storm pathophysiology 
characterized by rapid inflammatory developments involving IL-6, TNF-α, and 
anti-apoptotic responses. In contrast, PASC patients exhibit dominant enrichment 
of Myc Targets V1 and Oxidative Phosphorylation pathways (NES >2.2, FDR <0.005), 
indicating important shifts toward cellular adaptation. Pathway signature 
analysis identifies core differentially expressed genes that reliably 
distinguish disease phases, thereby offering objective biomarkers for precision 
diagnosis and monitoring.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings establish a comprehensive molecular framework 
distinguishing acute inflammatory from chronic metabolic COVID-19 phases, with 
potential clinical applicability. TNF-α/NF-κB pathway signatures identify 
patients at risk for severe disease progression, while Myc/OXPHOS signatures 
allow objective PASC diagnosis, addressing current reliance on subjective and 
eliminative diagnosis. This integrative analytical framework has utility beyond 
COVID-19, offering an applicable approach for precision medicine implementation 
across other diseases processes.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This study transforms COVID-19 from a symptom-based to a 
molecularly-defined disease spectrum, enabling precision diagnosis, prognostic 
monitoring, classification, and targeted therapeutic possibilities based on 
pathway-specific biomarkers rather than subjective clinical assessments.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.18.660454
PMCID: PMC12262630
PMID: 40666842


14. Acta Med Philipp. 2025 Jun 13;59(7):74-83. doi: 10.47895/amp.vi0.6823. 
eCollection 2025.

Do Work Schedule and Work Position have an Impact on Fatigue among Geothermal 
Workers during the COVID-19 Pandemic? An Analysis Using Structural Equation 
Modeling.

Raharjo CN(1), Wibowo S(2)(3), Kekalih A(2), Agustina A(2), Ilyas M(2).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program of Occupational Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Universitas Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia.
(2)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Indonesia, 
Jakarta, Indonesia.
(3)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Krida Wacana Christian University, 
Jakarta, Indonesia.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to examine the impact of work schedule and work 
position on fatigue levels among employees at a private geothermal firm in 
Indonesia during the COVID-19 pandemic. The company has modified its work 
schedule considering the COVID-19 epidemic to ensure a continuous supply of 
energy and meet the needs of the public.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, the dependent variable is fatigue, which 
is classified as a latent variable. Fatigue is assessed using the Indonesian 
version of the Swedish Occupational Fatigue Inventory (SOFI). Fatigue is a 
condition that has five dimensions: lack of energy, physical exertion, physical 
discomfort, sleepiness, and lack of motivation. The observed variables in this 
study include work schedule and work position, which serve as independent 
variables. Using structural equation modeling (SEM), we assessed the impact of 
the independent variables on each dimension of fatigue. This approach allowed 
for the analysis of both the measurement and structural models.
RESULTS: The investigation employed total sampling, involving 132 workers from 
the company who willingly participated in the study. According to the findings, 
workers' main fatigue dimension was lack of energy. However, the statistical 
analysis did not establish a significant influence of work schedule and work 
position on fatigue.
CONCLUSION: Based on the findings of the SEM analysis, it is evident that there 
is no statistically significant correlation between work schedules and job 
positions with various dimensions of fatigue assessed using the SOFI 
questionnaire. These dimensions include lack of energy, physical exertion, 
physical discomfort, sleepiness, and lack of motivation. While this outcome 
suggests that work schedules and job positions may not directly influence 
fatigue levels as measured in this study, it underscores the importance of 
implementing occupational health and safety management systems. Additionally, 
promoting good work practices such as offering flexible working hours may help 
address potential fatigue concerns among employees. However, further research is 
necessary to explore additional variables that could potentially impact fatigue 
levels in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.47895/amp.vi0.6823
PMCID: PMC12257564
PMID: 40666746

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declared no conflicts of interest.


15. Acta Med Philipp. 2025 Jun 13;59(7):62-66. doi: 10.47895/amp.vi0.10069. 
eCollection 2025.

Cross-sectional Cranial CT Imaging Findings and Patterns in Clinically Diagnosed 
COVID-19 Cases in a Tertiary Referral Center.

Sacdalan DRL(1), Catibog JJS(1), de Guzman CC Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Vascular and Interventional Radiology Section, Department of Radiology, 
Philippine General Hospital, University of the Philippines Manila.

BACKGROUND: Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, 
presents not only as a respiratory ailment but also poses risks of neurological 
complications whose underlying mechanisms remain unclear. These complications 
range from mild to severe and may involve direct invasion of the central nervous 
system (CNS), disruption of the blood-brain barrier, or systemic cytokine 
effects. Diagnostic challenges persist due to the suboptimal sensitivity of 
RT-PCR assays.
OBJECTIVE: The present study aimed to review the contrast and non-contrast 
enhanced cranial CT images of all diagnosed COVID-19 patients in a tertiary 
referral center with the clinical impression of non-traumatic and nonoperative 
CNS pathologies.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study analyzing CT images of COVID-19 
patients with neurological symptoms. Among 51 included patients, plain CT scans 
were predominantly used, revealing no acute infarcts or hemorrhages in the 
majority, while frontal lobe involvement was notable in cases with pathology. 
Chronic infarcts or ischemic changes were observed in over half of the cases, 
primarily affecting the anterior circulation. Only one case of meningitis was 
documented.
RESULTS: In the final analysis, 51 patients met the inclusion criteria out of 
the initial 64 enrolled. The study population, predominantly male with a mean 
age of 58.02 ± 20.87 years, mainly comprised patients solely diagnosed with 
COVID-19. Plain CT scans were favored over contrast-enhanced scans (76.50%, n = 
39). While most patients had no acute infarcts or hemorrhages, the frontal lobe 
was commonly affected among stroke patients (9.8%, n = 5). Additionally, a 
significant portion of patients without acute stroke findings exhibited chronic 
infarcts or ischemic changes (57.69%, n = 15).
CONCLUSIONS: This study sheds light on the radiological patterns of CNS 
involvement in COVID-19 patients, highlighting frequent frontal lobe involvement 
possibly attributed to hypercoagulability and endotheliitis. Further research 
with larger sample sizes and MRI utilization is recommended to enhance our 
understanding of CNS manifestations in COVID-19. This study contributes to 
understanding COVID-19 neurological sequelae, particularly in terms of 
radiological patterns, among patients presenting with neurological symptoms. The 
findings highlight the need for comprehensive evaluation and management of 
neurological complications in COVID-19 patients.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.47895/amp.vi0.10069
PMCID: PMC12257562
PMID: 40666742

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declared no conflicts of interest.


16. Access Microbiol. 2025 Jul 15;7(7):001020.v3. doi: 10.1099/acmi.0.001020.v3. 
eCollection 2025.

Utilization of Oxford Nanopore Technology for human infectious disease detection 
and surveillance in Africa: a scoping review.

Bastug K(#)(1), Umar U(#)(2), Olson B(3), Slusher T(4)(5), Faulk C(6), Okolo 
M(7), Oguche S(8), Thielen BK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, Faculty of Clinical 
Sciences, College of Health Sciences, University of Jos, Jos, Plateau State, 
Nigeria.
(3)Health Sciences Libraries, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics and Division of Critical Care, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics and Division of Critical Care, Hennepin County 
Medical Center, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(6)Department of Animal Science, College of Food, Agricultural and Natural 
Resources Science, University of Minnesota, Saint Paul, MN, USA.
(7)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Jos and Jos University 
Teaching Hospital, Faculty of Basic Clinical Sciences, College of Health 
Sciences, Jos, Plateau State, Nigeria.
(8)Department of Paediatrics, Faculty of Clinical Sciences, College of Health 
Sciences, University of Jos and Jos University Teaching Hospital, Jos, Plateau 
State, Nigeria.
(#)Contributed equally

Background. Nanopore-based sequencing by Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) 
offers rapid, cost-effective and portable sequencing. As an emerging technology, 
ONT must be evaluated for efficacy and practical application in both high- and 
low-resource settings. This scoping review (SR) aimed to (1) describe how 
nanopore technology is used in Africa for surveillance and diagnosis of human 
infectious diseases, (2) describe how nanopore technology aids in the real-time 
detection of infectious pathogens in Africa and (3) identify challenges and 
opportunities for utilizing nanopore technology in Africa to study infectious 
diseases. Methods. This SR followed the Joanna Briggs Institute Reviewer's 
Manual framework for SRs. English language studies published from 1 January 2008 
to 30 April 2024 that used ONT on human specimens collected in Africa and 
targeted ≥1 microbial agent were included. Searches were performed in Embase, 
Medline, PubMed, CINAHL and the Cochrane Library. The protocol was publicly 
available on the Open Science Framework Bastug et al. (Nanopore Sequencing for 
Infectious Diseases Surveillance and Diagnostics in Africa: a Scoping Review 
2024) prior to data collection. Two independent reviewers screened studies using 
Covidence, and data was extracted using a custom REDCap instrument. Descriptive 
statistics and data visualization were performed in Microsoft Excel. Results. 
One thousand one hundred sixty-two studies were identified and 93 (8%) underwent 
full-text review. The portable MinION Mk1B was the most common ONT device (65% 
of studies). Eighty-eight studies analysed specimens from a single African 
country. Of these, 45% were sequenced in the same country, 7% in a different 
African country and 11% in a non-African country, while 32% did not specify the 
location. Specimen types included direct patient specimens (62%) and cultured 
isolates (35%), or a combination of both. Blood, serum or plasma was most common 
(35%), followed by naso- or oropharyngeal specimens (27%). Forty-four studies 
used ONT during an active infectious disease outbreak, 25 of which studied 
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Seventy-two 
studies used ONT for genomic surveillance of infectious pathogens or antibiotic 
resistance genes, and one study used ONT for a direct clinical application. 
African-affiliated authors were included as first, middle and last authors in 
46% of studies, and 15% were published by entirely African-affiliated teams. Ten 
studies published information on workflow timeline, and five studies published 
the per-specimen cost. Conclusions. ONT can enable timely and affordable 
sequencing in African countries as demonstrated through a small number of 
studies that accomplished these goals individually. Most studies used ONT for 
genomic surveillance of pathogens or antimicrobial resistance genes, while only 
one study used ONT directly for a real-time clinical application. A small number 
of studies described a short interval between specimen collection and sequence 
result, supporting that clinical applications are possible. There is a need for 
improved reporting of ONT methodology including pipeline timelines, cost, use of 
barcoding, flow cell models and the use of negative controls. Publications that 
provide these details will enhance reproducibility and support the development 
of new studies using ONT for the diagnosis and surveillance of infectious 
diseases in low-resource settings.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1099/acmi.0.001020.v3
PMCID: PMC12263285
PMID: 40666714

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest for 
this work. Thirty-one studies included multiple co-first authors, and 21 studies 
included multiple co-last authors. Fourteen studies (15%) were composed of only 
authors who were affiliated with African institutions, while two studies (2%) 
did not include an African-affiliated author. The most common authorship team 
structure included having an author affiliated with an African institution 
(termed ‘African-affiliated’) in all three positions of the paper, i.e. as 
first, middle and last authors (N=52, 56%, Fig. 4). Fig. 4.African-affiliated 
authors present in different authorship positions amongst studies.


17. Aust J Psychol. 2024 Nov 13;76(1):2425614. doi:
10.1080/00049530.2024.2425614.  eCollection 2024.

The Essential Network (TEN): consulting stakeholders and experts to better 
understand implementation of a blended care mental health support services for 
Australian health professionals.

Coleshill M(1)(2), Fransisca K(3), Du X(3), Black M(1)(4), Newby JM(1)(4), 
Harvey S(1)(2), Christensen H(1)(2), Baldwin P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Black Dog Institute, Sydney, Australia.
(2)UNSW Medicine & Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
(3)School of Psychological Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.
(4)School of Psychology, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: The Essential Network (TEN) is a blended care mental health support 
service for Australian health professionals. We conducted a series of 
semi-structured interviews with key stakeholders and researchers to understand 
health professionals' needs, canvas suggested changes to TEN, and examine 
methods of improving service uptake.
METHOD: Nine semi-structured individual or group interviews were conducted with 
10 TEN stakeholders (external stakeholders) and eight interviews were conducted 
with 18 researchers or related roles with experience implementing or evaluating 
mental health services for health professionals (internal experts). 
De-identified transcripts were thematically analysed using an inductive and 
deductive approach.
RESULTS: Participants highlighted the need for confidentiality, with mandatory 
reporting concerns being a key barrier to health professionals engaging with 
mental health services. External stakeholders viewed digital services as 
advantageous due to accessibility and anonymity, although both groups noted that 
concerns around effectiveness were a barrier to engagement with digital 
services. Both groups agreed that peer endorsement was key to implementation.
CONCLUSIONS: Digital services were viewed as promising, but best employed 
alongside person-to-person options in a blended care format. Services that 
address the unique workplace culture of healthcare, including stigma and 
systemic barriers to help-seeking, can create effective and scalable support for 
health professionals.

Plain Language Summary: What is already known about this topic: (1) Health 
professionals are at a greater risk of poor mental health compared to the 
general public. (2) The COVID-19 pandemic has placed further strain upon health 
professionals, highlighting the need for more tailored mental health services. 
(3) Cultural and systemic issues exist within healthcare that act as barriers to 
help-seeking. What this topic adds: (1) Digital services were viewed as best 
employed alongside person-to-person services in a blended care format. (2) In 
addition to already established barriers, the volume of information health 
professionals receive may have obscured information about relevant support 
services. (3) Peer endorsement was seen as crucial to effectively driving the 
usage of mental health support services for health professionals.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & 
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/00049530.2024.2425614
PMCID: PMC12218516
PMID: 40666647

Conflict of interest statement: TEN is supported by funding from the Australian 
Government Department of Health. Authors MJC and MJB are supported by funding 
for TEN from the Australian Government Department of Health. The funding body 
played no role in the design of the study and collection, analysis, and 
interpretation of data or in the writing of this manuscript.


18. Aust J Psychol. 2024 Oct 14;76(1):2408019. doi:
10.1080/00049530.2024.2408019.  eCollection 2024.

Adolescent and young adult sleep and sleep-related behaviour change before and 
during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown in Canada.

Carmona NE(1), Kutana S(1), Sumantry D(1), Marway O(1), Carney A(1), Amestoy 
M(1), Usyatynsky A(1), Carney CE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Toronto Metropolitan University, Toronto, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Sleep disturbance is common in adolescents and young adults (AYAs), 
impacted by stress and academic/scheduling demands that conflict with biological 
phase delay. COVID-19 lockdowns allowed us to study sleep in AYAs when there are 
lessened scheduling demands. Additionally, we could test whether a sleep 
self-management app was helpful during lockdowns.
METHOD: AYAs (ages 15-24 years) before (Pre-Lockdown; n = 65) and during 
lockdowns in Canada (Lockdown; n = 40) completed sleep diaries on the app; set 
goals based on generated feedback; and completed more sleep diaries pursuing 
whatever post-feedback goals they set.
RESULTS: The Lockdown group reported later and less variable rise times (RT) and 
spent more time in bed (TIB), both awake and asleep. Pre-Lockdown set a goal to 
reduce RT variability whereas Lockdown set a goal to decrease TIB, and AYAs made 
behaviour changes to meet their goals. For both groups, sleep onset, duration of 
awakenings, sleep duration and efficiency, and insomnia severity significantly 
improved at endpoint.
CONCLUSIONS: AYAs slept differently during lockdowns, perhaps due to decreased 
scheduling. The pandemic revealed the need for accessible strategies to improve 
sleep health. Findings support the feasibility of using evidence-based apps, and 
that AYAs can effectively use self-management tools across variable global and 
social contexts to improve their sleep.

Plain Language Summary: What is already known about this topic: Adolescents and 
young adults (AYAs) experience myriad sleep problems that result from an 
interaction between (1) biological factors promoting later bedtimes while still 
requiring more time to recovery from sleep debt than adults, (2) environmental 
factors such as early school start times, and (3) behavioural factors that delay 
bedtime and increase pre-sleep arousal.Surveys conducted during initial COVID-19 
lockdowns indicated increased rates of sleep disturbance in AYAs.AYAs unique 
sleep needs and low access to care indicate that tailored, digital 
self-management tools may be an optimal strategy to improve sleep health in this 
group. What this study adds: Using a transdiagnostic sleep app, we found that 
AYAs completing sleep diaries during lockdowns spent more time in bed resulting 
in more time asleep and more time awake, and their rise time shifted later and 
became more consistent.AYAs before and during lockdowns set different goals to 
improve their sleep, but both groups used the app to set and make progress 
towards their sleep goals and experienced improvements in sleep parameters and 
subjective insomnia severity.Our data provide initial support for the use of 
tailored digital solutions to reach this at-need group and indicate that AYAs 
flexibly use self-management tools to improve their sleep health under shifting 
global contexts.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & 
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/00049530.2024.2408019
PMCID: PMC12218539
PMID: 40666637

Conflict of interest statement: Colleen E. Carney is the creator of DOZE and the 
principal investigator of this study and does not receive any royalties for 
DOZE. The other authors have no conflicts to disclose.


19. Aust J Psychol. 2024 Jul 31;76(1):2384373. doi:
10.1080/00049530.2024.2384373.  eCollection 2024.

The association between gratitude and distress tolerance in undergraduate 
students: the mediating effect of hope and fear of COVID-19.

Kaya EÜ(1), Kaya GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Firat University, Department of Business Administration, Elazig, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: The COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected the mental health of people 
all over the world. The distress tolerance of individuals may make them more 
resilient to negative emotions. Therefore, this study aimed to examine the 
mediating roles of hope and fear of COVID-19 in the relationship between 
gratitude and distress tolerance.
METHOD: This study was designed as STROBE cross-sectional reporting guidelines, 
and included 440 health science students enrolled in a public university in 
Turkey. Participants completed the Gratitude Questionnaire-6, Distress Tolerance 
Scale, Hope Scale, and Fear of COVID-19 scale.
RESULTS: The direct link between gratitude and distress tolerance was not 
significant. Hope was positively associated with gratitude and distress 
tolerance, whereas fear of COVID-19 was negatively associated with gratitude, 
hope, and distress tolerance. Hope and fear of COVID-19 do not sequentially 
mediate the link between gratitude and distress tolerance.
CONCLUSIONS: The positive relationship between gratitude and distress tolerance 
was mediated only by hope. The findings of our study are important as they 
emphasise that individuals with high dispositional gratitude and hope may 
improve their distress tolerance abilities. For dispositional gratitude to 
improve the ability to tolerate distress, additional efforts to provide 
individuals with this ability may be necessary.

Plain Language Summary: What is already known about this topic: (1) The COVID-19 
epidemic has increased psychological distress such as anxiety and fear. (2) Poor 
distress tolerance causes negative emotions to be experienced more intensely. 
(3) Gratitude and hope improve mental health. What this topic adds: (1) In the 
COVID-19 epidemic, the relationships between distress tolerance as well as 
positive (hope and gratitude) and negative psychology (fear of COVID-19) 
variables were not examined. (2) Gratitude and hope may improve distress 
tolerance. (3) In order for gratitude to improve distress tolerance ability, 
skill development training may be needed to equip individuals with this ability.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & 
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/00049530.2024.2384373
PMCID: PMC12218429
PMID: 40666635

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


20. Postep Psychiatr Neurol. 2025 Jun;34(2):93-98. doi: 10.5114/ppn.2025.151781. 
Epub 2025 Jun 5.

The BASIC Ph model in communication and building individual and group resilience 
in crises. An example of use during the refugee crisis in Poland.

Zabłocka-Żytka L(1), Lahad M(2).

Author information:
(1)The Maria Grzegorzewska University, Institute of Psychology, Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Community Stress Prevention Center, Kiryat Shmona, Israel.

PURPOSE: Everyday difficulties, but also new threats experienced by individuals 
and whole societies, are sources of stress that, due to their intensity, 
occurrence over time and in the absence of adequate support, can trigger crises 
and traumatic experiences. Examples of the latter are COVID-19 or military 
action in Europe, among other things, and the related wave of refugees who have 
sought refuge in many Western European countries since February 2022 in 
particular. This is why it is so important to cultivate resilience and the 
ability to cope effectively cope with stress not only at the individual level 
but also in entire social groups, and to nurture the resources not only of those 
already experiencing crises and mental health disorders, but also of entire 
populations.
VIEWS: The BASIC Ph model devised by Prof. Mooli Lahad (2013) is a tool for 
effective crisis communication and thus building individual and social 
resilience. It has been successfully implemented for several decades in the 
process of educating individuals and social groups about stress and forming new, 
effective ways of coping with it, thereby building mental resilience in 
situations such as natural disasters, epidemics, wars, migration, and refugee 
crises.
CONCLUSIONS: The article presents the application of the BASIC Ph model in the 
example of the refugee crisis and its use for people experiencing the trauma of 
war and forced migration, as well as citizens of host and migrant-supporting 
countries.

Copyright © 2025 Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.5114/ppn.2025.151781
PMCID: PMC12257611
PMID: 40666612

Conflict of interest statement: None.


21. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2025 Jul 15;49:e77. doi: 10.26633/RPSP.2025.77. 
eCollection 2025.

[Distance between place of residence and location of maternal deaths: Regional, 
ethnic-racial, and territorial inequalities in Brazil, 2018 to 2023Distancia 
entre la zona de residencia de las mujeres parturientas y el lugar donde se 
producen las muertes maternas: desigualdades regionales, étnico-raciales y 
territoriales en Brasil, 2018-2023].

[Article in Portuguese]

Dantas Junior AB(1), Bezerra AB(1), da Nobrega AA(1), Rabello DL(1), Lobo AP(1), 
Maciel EL(1), de Oliveira LC(1).

Author information:
(1)Ministério da Saúde Secretaria de Vigilância em Saúde e Ambiente Brasília 
(DF) Brasil Ministério da Saúde, Secretaria de Vigilância em Saúde e Ambiente, 
Brasília (DF), Brasil.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the distance between the place of residence and the 
location of maternal deaths in Brazil from 2018 to 2023, taking into account 
territorial, ethnic-racial, and regional inequalities.
METHODS: An ecological study was conducted using data from Brazil's Mortality 
Information System (SIM) and the Live Birth Information System (Sinasc). 
Distances between the municipalities of residence and those where maternal 
deaths occurred were calculated using the Open Source Routing Machine (OSRM) 
API. The maternal mortality ratio (MMR), defined as the number of maternal 
deaths per 100 000 live births, was estimated according to distance intervals, 
race/skin color, age group, pandemic period, and municipal population size.
RESULTS: A total of 10 911 maternal deaths were recorded in Brazil during the 
study period. The majority (56.7%) occurred without inter-municipal travel. 
Travel distances greater than 500 km were more frequent among indigenous women 
and women under 20 years of age. In these cases, the MMR was higher, reaching 
772.5 deaths per 100 000 live births during the COVID-19 pandemic (2020 and 
2021). Among indigenous women, the average travel distance was the highest 
across all groups, reaching 533 km in 2020 and 2021. Municipalities with fewer 
than 50 000 inhabitants accounted for 58.2% of inter-municipal travel.
CONCLUSIONS: Travel distances were longer in contexts of greater social and 
territorial vulnerability, such as among indigenous women and residents of less 
populated areas. The findings underscore the need for public policies that 
address territorial inequalities and expand geographic access to ensure safe and 
timely obstetric care.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Analizar la distancia entre la zona de residencia de las 
mujeres parturientas y el lugar donde se produjeron las muertes maternas en 
Brasil en el período 2018-2023, en relación con las desigualdades territoriales, 
étnico-raciales y regionales.
MÉTODO: Se realizó un estudio ecológico para el cual se utilizaron datos del 
Sistema de Información de Mortalidad (SIM) y del Sistema de Información sobre 
Nacidos Vivos (SINASC). Se calcularon las distancias entre los municipios de 
residencia de las mujeres parturientas y los municipios donde se produjeron las 
muertes maternas utilizando la interfaz de programación de aplicaciones de Open 
Source Routing Machine (OSRM), una herramienta que permite determinar la mejor 
ruta entre dos puntos geográficos. Se estimó la tasa de mortalidad materna, 
definida como el número de muertes maternas por cada 100 000 nacidos vivos, 
según los intervalos de distancia, la raza o etnia, el grupo etario, el período 
pandémico (años 2020 y 2021) y el número de habitantes de los municipios.
RESULTADOS: En Brasil, se produjeron 10 911 muertes maternas durante el período 
analizado. La mayoría de las mujeres fallecidas (56,7%) no se había desplazado 
de su lugar de residencia. Los traslados de más de 500 kilómetros fueron más 
frecuentes en las mujeres parturientas indígenas y en las menores de 20 años. En 
estos casos, la tasa de mortalidad materna fue más elevada, con hasta 772,5 
muertes por cada 100 000 nacidos vivos durante el período pandémico. La 
distancia media de desplazamiento en la población indígena fue de hasta 533 
kilómetros en el período pandémico, la más alta de todos los grupos. El 58,2% de 
los desplazamientos a otro municipio se produjo en las mujeres que vivían en 
municipios con menos de 50 000 habitantes.
CONCLUSIONES: La distancia de desplazamiento fue más larga en las mujeres de 
contextos de mayor vulnerabilidad social y territorial, como las parturientas 
indígenas y las que vivían en zonas menos pobladas. Los resultados obtenidos en 
este estudio refuerzan la necesidad de contar con políticas públicas que tengan 
en cuenta las desigualdades territoriales y amplíen las posibilidades de acceso 
geográfico para asegurar una atención obstétrica segura y oportuna.

DOI: 10.26633/RPSP.2025.77
PMCID: PMC12262099
PMID: 40666609

Conflict of interest statement: Conflitos de interesse. Nada declarado pelos 
autores.


22. Cureus. 2025 Jun 15;17(6):e86031. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86031. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

Paraneoplastic Amyopathic Dermatomyositis Associated With a Bone and Medullary 
Location of Breast Adenocarcinoma.

Haboub F(1), El Fadli M(2), Zouiten O(1), Afani L(1), Belbaraka R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire Mohammed VI, 
Marrakesh, MAR.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Cadi Ayyad University, Marrakesh, MAR.

Paraneoplastic amyopathic dermatomyositis (ADM) is a rare connective tissue 
disease presenting with characteristic dermatomyositis-like skin findings in the 
absence of muscle involvement. It is associated with malignancies in 15%-30% of 
cases and may portend a fatal outcome, especially when linked to advanced 
cancers. We report the case of a 58-year-old woman who presented with 
progressive low back pain and erythroderma. Imaging revealed diffuse bone 
metastases, and bone biopsy confirmed a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of 
breast origin (estrogen receptor, 60%; progesterone receptor, 35%; GATA3 
positive). Simultaneously, dermatological evaluation identified periungual 
erythema and other cutaneous findings consistent with ADM. The patient was 
started on endocrine therapy with palbociclib and letrozole, along with 
corticosteroids and hydroxychloroquine, resulting in partial clinical 
improvement. However, within six months of diagnosis, she developed severe 
COVID-19 pneumonia, complicated by pancytopenia and sepsis, and ultimately 
succumbed to multiorgan failure despite intensive care support. This case 
underlines the importance of recognizing paraneoplastic ADM as an initial 
manifestation of malignancy. A multidisciplinary approach is key, but the 
prognosis largely depends on the cancer's burden and complications such as 
treatment-induced immunosuppression.

Copyright © 2025, Haboub et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86031
PMCID: PMC12260473
PMID: 40666594

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


23. Cureus. 2025 Jun 14;17(6):e86024. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86024. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

A Rare Case of Polymicrobial Empyema Associated With COVID-19 Infection 
Complicated by a Bronchopleural Fistula.

Regmi DR(1), Kshetri S(2), Wagle L(3), Regmi S(4).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Nepalese Army Institute of Health Sciences, Kathmandu, 
NPL.
(2)Internal Medicine, MedStar Franklin Square Medical Center, Baltimore, USA.
(3)Internal Medicine, Ascension Saint Agnes Hospital, Baltimore, USA.
(4)Internal Medicine, Tribhuvan University Institute of Medicine, Kathmandu, 
NPL.

Empyema is a rare but serious complication in patients with COVID-19, and its 
association with bronchopleural fistula (BPF) is even more uncommon. We present 
the case of a 40-year-old woman with a history of intravenous drug use who 
developed polymicrobial empyema in the setting of COVID-19, further complicated 
by BPF. She presented with hypoxic respiratory failure, leukocytosis, and lactic 
acidosis. Imaging revealed a large right-sided hydropneumothorax and bilateral 
lung opacities. Broad-spectrum antibiotics, antivirals, and corticosteroids were 
initiated, and 3 liters of purulent fluid were drained via chest tube, 
confirming empyema. Cultures identified multiple pathogens, including 
Bacteroides fragilis, Arcanobacterium hemolyticum, methicillin-sensitive 
Staphylococcus aureus, and Group C/G streptococci. Persistent air leak and 
incomplete lung re-expansion led to a diagnosis of BPF. The patient was 
successfully managed with prolonged antibiotic therapy and chest tube drainage 
without requiring surgical or bronchoscopic intervention. This case highlights 
the importance of recognizing and conservatively managing small BPFs in 
COVID-19-associated empyema, emphasizing the potential for non-surgical 
resolution in select cases.

Copyright © 2025, Regmi et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86024
PMCID: PMC12259386
PMID: 40666568

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


24. Cureus. 2025 Jun 15;17(6):e86045. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86045. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Clostridioides difficile Infection Rates in a 
Tertiary Hospital: A Retrospective Comparative Study.

Shabana H(1), Abdelwahed H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, AUS.
(2)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Maitland Hospital, Newcastle, AUS.

Introduction The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the incidence of 
Clostridioides difficile infection (CDI) remains uncertain, with conflicting 
findings reported in the literature. While some studies have shown an increase 
in CDI cases, others have found no significant change. This study aimed to 
compare healthcare-associated CDI incidence rates (including community-onset and 
hospital-onset cases) between the pre-COVID-19 and COVID-19 periods at our 
institution, with secondary analyses of ICU and hospital length of stay, 
mortality, severity, and recurrence rates. Methods This single-center 
retrospective study at Wollongong Hospital compared CDI rates before and during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Adult patients with diarrhea and confirmed CDI were 
included. Data on demographics, comorbidities, antibiotic use, hospital and ICU 
length of stay, mortality, and infection control metrics were analyzed. CDI 
incidence was calculated per 1,000 patient-days and per 1,000 admissions. 
Results Among 544 CDI cases (215 pre-COVID-19 and 329 during COVID-19), 291 
(53.5%) were community-onset and 253 (46.5%) hospital-onset. There were no 
significant differences between the two periods in CDI type (p = 0.599), time to 
acquisition (p = 0.388), severity (17.2% vs. 19.5%), ICU admission (18.1% vs. 
20.4%), ICU (p = 0.415) or hospital length of stay (p = 0.788), or mortality 
(9.3% vs. 8.8%). However, CDI recurrence was significantly higher during the 
COVID-19 period (10.9% vs. 5.6%, p < 0.05), as were incidence rates per 1,000 
patient admissions (2.2 vs. 1.47, p < 0.001) and per 1,000 patient-days (0.64 
vs. 0.45, p < 0.001). Hand hygiene compliance in general wards declined slightly 
but significantly (from 88.5% to 87.9%, p = 0.003), while ICU compliance 
remained stable. Conclusion The incidence of CDI was significantly higher during 
the COVID-19 period compared to the pre-COVID-19 period at our institution. 
These findings underscore the importance of strengthened antimicrobial 
stewardship and preventive measures during healthcare crises.

Copyright © 2025, Shabana et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86045
PMCID: PMC12261263
PMID: 40666560

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Illawarra Shoalhaven Local Health District Research Office and Clinical 
Governance Unit issued approval ISLHDQA242. Animal subjects: All authors have 
confirmed that this study did not involve animal subjects or tissue. Conflicts 
of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors 
declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no 
financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. 
Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial 
relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


25. Front Immunol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1627674. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1627674. 
eCollection 2025.

A paradigm shift in simulating affinity maturation to elicit broadly 
neutralizing antibodies.

Nakarin F(1), Sprenger KG(2).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering Graduate Program, University of Colorado Boulder, 
Boulder, CO, United States.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Colorado 
Boulder, Boulder, CO, United States.

Broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) offer a promising route to protect 
against rapidly evolving pathogens such as HIV, influenza, and SARS-CoV-2, yet 
eliciting them through vaccination remains a significant challenge. A key to 
this problem lies in understanding antibody affinity maturation (AM), the 
evolutionary process within germinal centers (GCs) that shapes the B cell and 
thus antibody response. Traditionally, AM has been viewed as favoring the 
selection of B cells with the highest-affinity B cell receptors (BCRs) through 
competitive interplays. However, emerging evidence suggests that GCs are more 
permissive, allowing B cells with a broad range of affinities to persist, 
thereby promoting clonal diversity and enabling the rare emergence of bnAbs. 
This review reassesses affinity-based selection models and proposes a new 
paradigm that integrates multifactorial processes, including stochastic B cell 
decisions within GC dynamics, antigen extraction efficiency influenced by 
probabilistic bond rupture, and avidity-driven BCR binding alterations and 
representations on multivalent antigens. We highlight how advanced AM 
simulations that move beyond affinity as the sole determinant provide a more 
realistic and predictive representation of AM, marking a major step forward in 
developing strategies to promote effective immune responses against highly 
mutable, complex antigens.

Copyright © 2025 Nakarin and Sprenger.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1627674
PMCID: PMC12259674
PMID: 40666529

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


26. Juntendo Med J. 2025 Apr 18;71(3):173-179. doi: 10.14789/ejmj.JMJ24-0050-OA. 
eCollection 2025.

Adverse Effects of the Long-term use of an N95 Respirator in Healthcare Workers.

Takami H, Mitsuhashi T, Usuda D, Nomura T, Sugita M.

OBJECTIVES: Healthcare workers must take stringent infection control measures 
against coronavirus disease. Previous reports have indicated that N95 
respirators cause fatigue, discomfort, and physical symptoms, such as headaches. 
We aimed to comparatively analyze the effect of the use of surgical and N95 
respirators for long hours on the performance of healthcare workers. This is the 
first study to validate the effect of wearing N95 respirators on work 
efficiency.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was conducted from April 2021 to October 2021 
during the COVID-19 pandemic in Japan. Healthy healthcare workers at an 
emergency department were subjected to a performance task program comprising 
four tasks conducted before and after wearing a surgical mask/N95 respirator for 
at least 4 h, and the results were compared.
RESULTS: The study included 17 (male, 8 [47.1%]) healthcare workers. The age 
ranged from 22 to 32 (mean, 26.6) years. For each task, the rate of change in 
the percentage of correct responses, rate of decline in reaction time, and rate 
of decline in reaction time for correct responses were calculated before and 
after wearing the two types of masks. There was no statistically significant 
difference in the rate of decline in reaction time between the masks for all 
tasks. However, there was a trend toward a high rate of decline in the 
alphanumeric detection task.
CONCLUSIONS: Using an N95 respirator for 4 h continuously did not adversely 
affect work efficiency. Although prolonged work under conditions of discomfort 
should be avoided, it is unlikely that N95 respirators will adversely affect the 
performance of healthcare workers.

© 2025 The Juntendo Medical Society.

DOI: 10.14789/ejmj.JMJ24-0050-OA
PMCID: PMC12257224
PMID: 40666495

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests to disclose.


27. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 26:2025.06.26.25330297. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.26.25330297.

Mobility-informed metapopulation models predict the spatio-temporal spread of 
respiratory epidemics across scales.

Pandey A, Zhong L, Rennert L.

Understanding the spatiotemporal dynamics of infectious disease spread is 
critical for anticipating epidemic trajectories and guiding public health 
responses. Accurate forecasts of where and when outbreaks are likely to emerge 
can support efficient resource allocation, particularly during the early stages 
of epidemics when surveillance data are limited. In this study, we used 
empirical human mobility data derived from county-level commuting and air 
traffic flows, and a theoretical mobility model (the radiation model) to study 
the relative order of epidemic onset across spatial scales. These mobility 
models were incorporated into a metapopulation framework to predict the spread 
of three major respiratory pathogens: COVID-19, seasonal influenza, and 
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). We applied this framework to county-level 
transmission within South Carolina and state-level introductions across the 
United States. In both empirical and theoretical mobility scenarios, we found 
that effective distance, a network-based measure of mobility-informed proximity, 
reliably predicts the relative timing of epidemic onset. These results 
demonstrate that mobility-informed metapopulation models can capture consistent 
spatiotemporal patterns across disease systems and spatial scales, even in the 
absence of detailed epidemiological parameters. This highlights their potential 
as scalable, data-efficient tools for outbreak forecasting and early public 
health planning.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.26.25330297
PMCID: PMC12262780
PMID: 40666369


28. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 24:2025.06.24.25330210. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.24.25330210.

Machine Learning and Probabilistic Approaches for Forecasting COVID-19 
Transmission and Cases.

Hossain MS, Goyal R, Martin NK, DeGruttola V, Ahammed T, McMahan C, Rennert L.

Forecasting the effective reproductive number ( R t ) and COVID-19 case counts 
are critical for guiding public health responses. We developed a machine 
learning and probabilistic forecasting framework to predict R t and daily case 
counts at the county level in South Carolina (SC). Our approach utilized initial 
R t estimates from EpiNow2 R package refined with spatial (covariate-adjusted) 
smoothing. We then generated R t forecasts using an ensemble of regression, 
Random Forest, and XGBoost models, and predicted case counts with a 
probabilistic Poisson model. This ensemble-based approach consistently 
outperformed EpiNow2 across different forecast horizons (7-day, 14-day, and 
21-day). In the first forecast period (November 11, 2020 - February 02, 2021), 
the ensemble achieved a median percentage agreement (PA) across counties of 
94.4% (IQR: 93.8% - 95.3%) for 7-day ahead R t forecast, compared to 87.0% (IQR: 
84.4% - 89.4%) from EpiNow2. In the second period (December 11, 2022 - March 04, 
2023), the ensemble attained a 93.0% median PA across counties for Rt forecast 
(IQR: 91.3% - 94.1%), while EpiNow2 reached 86.8% (IQR: 82.5% - 89.2%). Similar 
trends were observed for case forecast, with the ensemble model demonstrating 
improved stability and performance. Combining spatial smoothing with ensemble 
modeling improves epidemic forecasting by enhancing predictive performance and 
robustness.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.24.25330210
PMCID: PMC12262794
PMID: 40666366


29. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 24:2025.06.24.25330211. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.24.25330211.

Enhancing Pandemic Prediction: A Deep Learning Approach Using Transformer Neural 
Networks and Multi-Source Data Fusion for Infectious Disease Forecasting.

Wu J, Tanim S, Woo M, Ahammed T, Rennert L.

The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the urgent need for accurate prediction of 
pandemic trends. We propose a deep learning model for predicting Covid-19 cases 
and deaths at the county level through transformer neural networks with 
multi-source data fusion, incorporating historical case data, death data, and 
social media sentiment analysis to capture both temporal (historical trends) and 
spatial (geographical relationships) dynamics within time series data. 
Additionally, we develop multi-level and multi-scale attention mechanisms for 
adaptive time-frequency analysis. Across three Omicron variant waves (December 
2021 through February 2023), the model demonstrated strong performance in 
predicting county-level Covid-19 cases and deaths, with median county agreement 
accuracy ranging from 74.0% to 82.6% for one-week case forecasts and 68.7% to 
79.6% for 5-week case forecasts. Median county agreement accuracy for deaths 
ranged from 83.2% to 86.3% for one-week forecasts and 84.3% to 87.2% for 
five-week forecasts. Incorporating social media data yielded mild to moderate 
improvement in forecasting accuracy. Overall, the proposed model yielded 
substantial improvements compared to a baseline persistence model utilizing the 
last observation carried forward. By integrating real-time data and capturing 
complex pandemic dynamics, this approach surpasses traditional methods. Its high 
accuracy and generalizability make it a valuable tool for enhancing public 
health preparedness and response strategies in future outbreaks.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.24.25330211
PMCID: PMC12262765
PMID: 40666360


30. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 27:2025.06.26.25330361. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.26.25330361.

Gaps in Artificial Intelligence Research for Rural Health in the United States: 
A Scoping Review.

Brown KE, Davis SE.

BACKGROUND: Artificial intelligence (AI) has impacted healthcare at urban and 
academic medical centers globally. The current focus on AI deployments in urban 
areas and the history of US urban-rural digital divides raises concerns that the 
promise of AI may not be realized in rural communities. This may exacerbate 
well-documented health disparities. Without the benefits of AI-driven 
improvements in patient outcomes and increased efficiency, rural healthcare 
facilities may fall farther behind their urban counterparts and rural hospital 
closure rates may continue to rise.
METHODS: We conducted a scoping review following the PRISMA guidelines. We 
included peer-reviewed, original research studies indexed in PubMed, Embase, and 
WebOfScience after January 1, 2010 and through April 29, 2025. Studies were 
required to discuss the development, implementation, or evaluation of AI tools 
in rural US healthcare, including frameworks that help facilitate AI development 
(e.g., data warehouses).
FINDINGS: Our search strategy found 26 studies meeting inclusion criteria after 
full text screening with 14 papers discussing predictive AI models and 12 papers 
discussing data or research infrastructure. AI models most commonly targeted 
resource allocation and distribution. Few studies explored model deployment and 
impact. Half noted the lack of data and analytic resources as a limitation to 
both development and validation. None of the studies discussed examples of 
generative AI being trained, evaluated, or deployed in a rural setting.
INTERPRETATION: Practical limitations may be influencing and limiting the types 
of AI models evaluated in the rural US. We noted validation of tools in the 
rural US was underwhelming, and ultimately, neglected. With few studies moving 
beyond AI model design and development stages, there is a clear gap in our 
understanding of how to reliably validate, deploy, and sustain AI models in 
rural settings to advance health in all communities.
FUNDING: National Library of Medicine.
RESEARCH IN CONTEXT: Evidence before this study: Clinical artificial 
intelligence (AI)-both for prediction modeling and generative tools- tools 
promise to reduce care delays, improve diagnosis and treatment decision-making, 
reduce care costs, and improve efficiency to reduce provider workload and 
enhance practice management. Unfortunately, efforts to deploy artificial 
intelligence (AI)-both for prediction modeling and generative tools-in 
healthcare are advancing, primarily at large academic medical centers and in 
urban areas. An emerging new digital divide in the use of clinical AI could 
exacerbate the well-documented health disparities between urban and rural 
communities in the United States. A better understanding of if and how AI is 
being developed, deployed, and evaluated across rural US communities is 
necessary to identify resources gaps and challenges to broad AI use in all 
communities.Added value of this study: This study analyzes the current state of 
artificial intelligence research in the rural United States. For predictive AI 
models, applications most commonly targeted resource allocation and 
distribution. We noted several attempts to predict resource utilization of 
patients who were either tested or tested positive to COVID-19. However, we 
noted few AI solutions for acute medical events faced by rural patients, such as 
trauma and stroke, despite worse outcomes for rural patients suffering from 
these acute events. The limited availability of time-critical specialties such 
as trauma/emergency medicine, neurology, and cardiology in rural areas often 
necessitates patients with such conditions be transferred to larger, more 
resourced hospitals. Practical limitations may be influencing and limiting the 
types of AI models evaluated in rural US medical facilities. The most frequent 
model employed were tree-based ensembles, such as random forests and 
gradient-boosting trees. Our review also highlighted few studies of AI models 
moving beyond the design and develop stages, leaving a clear gap in our 
understanding of how to deploy and sustain predictive AI models in rural 
settings. Several challenges noted in the reviewed studies may provide insight 
into this lack of translation from research to implementation. We note that 
validation of A tools in the rural US was underwhelming, and ultimately, 
neglected. The most common form of model validation employed was a single random 
holdout test set. Half of the included papers mentioned a lack of reliable data 
sources or limited data volume as a potential challenge in developing and 
adopting AI/ML tools. The use of patient-level EHR data was often limited to 
what was available to the authors or at a specific medical center.Implications 
of all the available evidence: Our review indicates a gap and highlights 
opportunity for innovation in leveraging AI tools to predict and support 
patients in rural communities. Further research is needed to enhance the 
translation of state-of-the-art modeling techniques into effective AI tools for 
use in the rural US, including exploring partnerships between academic medical 
centers and rural communities and solutions to logistic challenges of such 
partnerships, including data and resource sharing.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.26.25330361
PMCID: PMC12262758
PMID: 40666334


31. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 23:2025.06.19.25329882. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.19.25329882.

Epidemiology of Aspergillosis Diagnoses in the U.S. using a National EHR 
Database, 2013-2023.

Morgan Bustamante BL, Martinez EG, Lee A, Kane NJ, Camponuri SK, Reynolds RM, 
Snow TT, Bartels JGE, Hoffman M, White TC, Remais JV.

IMPORTANCE: Aspergillosis is an under-recognized fungal infection associated 
with rising hospitalizations, concerns about antifungal resistance, and 
substantial morbidity and mortality in the U.S. Yet, national data on 
aspergillosis remain fragmented due to absence of centralized surveillance.
OBJECTIVE: To examine demographic and geographic variation and temporal trends 
in aspergillosis prevalence in the U.S. from 2013 to 2023; to assess how the 
COVID-19 pandemic influenced prevalence across population subgroups.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study using a large, national electronic health 
record (EHR) database.
SETTING: 142 healthcare systems in the U.S. using Oracle Health EHR systems, 
encompassing disparate care settings.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults aged 18 years and older who received care between January 
1, 2013, and December 31, 2023. The cohort included over 76 million patients, 
and over 127 million person-years, with 20,764 aspergillosis diagnoses.
EXPOSURES: Calendar year, patient characteristics (age, sex, race, ethnicity, 
residence type), and state of residence. COVID-19 was treated as a time-varying 
exposure.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Annual and overall prevalence of aspergillosis per 
100,000 person-years; adjusted prevalence ratios (aPRs) by demographic group and 
state, estimated using quasi-Poisson and Bayesian spatiotemporal regression. 
COVID-19-related shifts in prevalence were assessed using estimated marginal 
means.
RESULTS: Between 2013 and 2023, aspergillosis prevalence increased 5% annually, 
peaking in 2022. Rhode Island had the highest aPR across all years; Utah the 
lowest. Prevalence was higher in males (aPR: 1.37), older adults (aPR for ≥65 
vs. 18 to 34: 4.95), and urban residents (rural aPR: 0.86). Post-COVID-19, 
prevalence increased disproportionately among Hispanic or Latino patients and 
several racial minority groups. Suggestive trends of increasing prevalence were 
also observed among rural residents.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This study provides the most comprehensive national 
assessment to date of aspergillosis patterns in the U.S., revealing evidence of 
rising prevalence and emerging disparities shaped by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Clinicians should consider regional and demographic risk patterns to support 
earlier diagnosis, guide antifungal treatment, and improve outcomes-especially 
among older adults and populations disproportionately affected by COVID-19. 
Clinicians practicing in rural or underserved areas should be particularly 
mindful of shifting risk profiles and advocate for improved diagnostic resources 
to reduce delays in care.
QUESTION: How has aspergillosis prevalence changed in the U.S. over time, and 
how did the COVID-19 pandemic influence prevalence among demographic and 
geographic subgroups?
FINDINGS: In a nationally representative EHR cohort of over 76 million adults, 
aspergillosis prevalence increased by 5% annually from 2013 to 2023. After the 
emergence of COVID-19, prevalence increased disproportionately among Hispanic or 
Latino patients and racial minority groups.
MEANING: Findings suggest increasing aspergillosis prevalence in the U.S., with 
indications of widening disparities. While subject to data limitations, these 
trends underscore the importance of considering regional and demographic factors 
in clinical decision-making, particularly for populations disproportionately 
affected by COVID-19.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.19.25329882
PMCID: PMC12262757
PMID: 40666327


32. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 26:2025.06.25.25330294. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.25.25330294.

Granular Insights:A Wastewater-Based Machine Learning Approach for Localized 
COVID-19 Hospitalization Forecasting.

Tabassum N, Chowdhury MM, McMahan CS, Self S, Isanovic M, Correa-Velez K, 
Sellers SC, Norman RS, Rennert L.

Wastewater based epidemiology (WBE) is a valuable tool for monitoring emerging 
disease trends in a community. Specifically, early predictions of 
hospitalization in a community can help reduce the strain on healthcare services 
and facilitate better planning and preparation. This study examines the use of 
SARS-CoV-2 RNA concentrations in wastewater to predict COVID-19 hospitalizations 
in South Carolina. We analyzed SARS-CoV-2 RNA concentration collected from six 
wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) across South Carolina from April 19, 2020 to 
February 2, 2021 to predict COVID-19-related hospitalizations across WWTPs and 
43 associated ZIP codes. Poisson regression and random forest models were 
utilized to forecast 7-day, 14-day, and 21-day ahead COVID-19 hospitalizations. 
Model performance was validated against statewide hospitalization claims data. 
Model accuracy was strongest for 14-day ahead prediction, with the random forest 
models achieving a median percentage agreement (PA) of 91.16% (IQR = 
86.49-91.84%) across WWTPs and 78.12% (IQR = 67.99-84.53%) across ZIP codes. 
These findings demonstrate that WBE offers a robust and timely approach for 
predicting hospitalizations at fine geographic scales. This modeling framework 
can be adapted to other infectious diseases to enhance surveillance and response 
efforts.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.25.25330294
PMCID: PMC12262745
PMID: 40666319


33. Virus Evol. 2025 Jul 1;11(1):veaf049. doi: 10.1093/ve/veaf049. eCollection
2025.

Surveillance of coronaviruses in wild aquatic birds in Hong Kong: expanded 
genetic diversity and discovery of novel subgenus in the Deltacoronavirus.

Ng DYM(1), Sun W(1), Sit THC(2), Brackman CJ(2), Tse ACN(2), Bui CHT(2), Tang 
AWY(1), Wong ANC(1), Tsang ATL(1), Koo JCT(1), Cheng SMS(1), Peiris M(1)(3), 
Samborskiy DV(4), Gorbalenya AE(5), Chin AWH(1), Poon LLM(1)(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, LKS Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong 
Kong, G/F, Patrick Manson Building (North Wing), 7 Sassoon Road, Pokfulam, Hong 
Kong SAR, China.
(2)Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department, Government of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region, 5/F, Cheung Sha Wan Government Offices, 303 
Cheung Sha Wan Road, Sham Shui Po District, Kowloon, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(3)Centre for Immunology and Infection, Unit 1111-1113, 11/F, Building 17W, 17 
Science Park West Avenue, Hong Kong Science and Technology Park, Shatin, New 
Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(4)Belozersky Institute of Physico-Chemical Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State 
University, Building A, Leninskie Gory, Gagarinsky District, Moscow 119899, 
Russia.
(5)Department of Medical Microbiology, Leiden University Center of Infectious 
Diseases, Leiden University Medical Center, Albinusdreef 2, P.O. Box 9600, E4-P, 
Leiden 2300 RC, South Holland, The Netherlands.
(6)HKU-Pasteur Research Pole, School of Public Health, LKS Faculty of Medicine, 
The University of Hong Kong, 7/F, Hong Kong Jockey Club Building for 
Interdisciplinary Research, 5 Sassoon Road, Pokfulam, Hong Kong SAR, China.

Migratory birds may carry emerging viruses over long distances. Regular 
surveillance and metagenomic analysis were employed to explore the diversity of 
avian coronaviruses at Hong Kong's Mai Po Wetland. We tested a total of 3239 
samples collected from 2018 to 2024, among which the prevalence rate of viruses 
of the genus Gammacoronavirus (64.4%) was higher than that of Deltacoronavirus 
(35.6%). The host species were identified for 79.8% of the coronavirus-positive 
samples. Two deltacoronaviruses with full-genome sequences and one nearly 
complete gammacoronavirus genome were identified in faecal samples of three bird 
species. We also predicted putative transcriptional regulatory sequences and 
3CLpro and PLpro cleavage sites for these viruses. Results from our phylogenetic 
analysis and pairwise amino acid identity comparisons, using the International 
Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses classification criteria based on the DEmARC 
framework, indicate that black-faced spoonbill coronavirus (BSCoV, strain 
MP22-1474) prototypes a new subgenus. Great cormorant coronavirus (GCCoV, strain 
MP18-1070) and falcated duck coronavirus (FDCoV, strain MP22-196) belong to two 
previously known species while diverging most profoundly from known viruses of 
these species. Two recombination events may have contributed to the evolution of 
FDCoV MP22-196 in genome regions from ORF1b to the S gene and from the M gene to 
the N gene. The cophylogenetic analysis between avian hosts and coronaviruses 
provides evidence for a strong linkage between viruses of the genus 
Gammacoronavirus and the birds of order Anseriformes. This study highlights the 
importance of ongoing surveillance for coronaviruses in wild migratory birds.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/ve/veaf049
PMCID: PMC12262178
PMID: 40666308

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


34. Am J Clin Exp Urol. 2025 Jun 15;13(3):194-214. doi: 10.62347/SLKE7419. 
eCollection 2025.

Comparative transcriptome profiling of the lumbosacral dorsal root ganglia 
reveals sexually dimorphic gene expression in a murine model of 
coronavirus-induced neurodegeneration.

Foley TC(1), Yesupatham SK(1), Miller-Dawson J(1), Malykhina AP(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, University of Colorado Anschutz 
Medical Campus Aurora, CO, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Neuroinflammation of the central nervous system (CNS) triggers 
long-lasting neurodegenerative changes associated with the development of 
neurogenic dysfunction in the pelvic organs. We previously described the 
symptoms of voiding dysfunction in a mouse model of multiple sclerosis (MS) 
induced by a coronaviral infection with mouse hepatitis virus (MHV). The aim of 
the current study was to identify immune, inflammatory and neuronal changes in 
the lumbosacral (L6-S2) dorsal root ganglia (DRG) innervating the lower urinary 
tract (LUT) after severe neurodegeneration in the CNS.
METHODS: Adult C57BL/6 male (N=18) and female (N=18) mice received either an 
intracranial injection of MHV (coronavirus-induced encephalomyelitis, CIE 
group), or sterile saline (control group). Dorsal root ganglia were collected 
from mice of both sexes at 1 and 4 weeks, followed by isolation of total RNA and 
bulk RNA sequencing.
RESULTS: Transcriptome analysis of LS DRG identified a sex dependent expression 
of the genes at baseline with females having an increased expression of the 
immune system and extracellular matrix (ECM) related differentially expressed 
genes (DEGs) whereas males showed an upregulation of the genes belonging to 
protein synthesis, folding, and post-translational phosphorylation. Acute 
neuroinflammation (1 wk post-infection) triggered extensive immune responses 
involving the families of interferons (Ifna2, Ifng, Ifnl1), interleukins (Il1a, 
Il1b, Il6), toll-like receptors (Tlr9, Tlr7), and guanylate-binding proteins 
(GTPases, Gbp) in both, CIE males and females. However, at a later stage of 
neurodegeneration (4 wks post-infection), the number of upregulated DEGs was 
down 6-fold in CIE males, whereas in CIE females the downregulated pathways were 
predominant, and mostly included genes encoding motor proteins (Myh7, Myl2, 
Myl3, Tnnt1, TnnI1, Dnah5). Among the pathways upregulated in males but 
downregulated in females at both time points were phagosome formation pathway, 
neutrophil extracellular trap signaling, and hepatic fibrosis pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirmed a differential expression of immune, 
inflammatory, and neural DEGs in sensory ganglia of male and female mice 
undergoing CNS neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation. The obtained results 
suggest a functional role of sex-dependent sensory interoception in the 
development of neurogenic LUTS in a coronavirus-induced murine model of MS.

AJCEU Copyright © 2025.

DOI: 10.62347/SLKE7419
PMCID: PMC12256358
PMID: 40666282

Conflict of interest statement: None.


35. Pediatr Discov. 2025 May 19;3(2):e70001. doi: 10.1002/pdi3.70001. eCollection
 2025 Jun.

Risk Factors and Clinical Features of Deterioration in 739 COVID-19 Affected 
Children Aged Under 14 Years in Zhuhai, China: A Multicenter, Retrospective 
Study.

Liu T(1), Pan Z(1), Zhang C(2), Huang F(3), Ding J(4), Song W(5), Xie Y(1), Lin 
G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Rheumatology and Immunology Zhuhai Center for 
Maternal and Child Health Care Zhuhai Guangdong China.
(2)Department of Pediatrics Zhuhai People's Hospital Zhuhai Guangdong China.
(3)Department of Pediatrics Xiangzhou District People's Hospital Zhuhai 
Guangdong China.
(4)Department of Pediatrics Zhuhai Fifth People's Hospital Zhuhai Guangdong 
China.
(5)Department of Pediatrics The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University (Zhuhai) Zhuhai Guangdong China.

To retrospectively analyze the clinical characteristics of children with severe 
acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, this study 
involved 739 children with SARS-CoV-2 infection who were admitted to multiple 
medical institutions in Zhuhai City from December 15, 2022 to January 24, 2023. 
Epidemiological and clinical data were collected and analyzed using statistical 
methods to understand the disease characteristics. The onset and progression of 
SARS-CoV-2 infection in children were significantly associated with age 
distribution, basic illness, vaccination status, exposure history, and family 
clustering. The most common clinical symptoms were fever (91.7%) and cough 
(81.6%). Laboratory findings indicated elevated neutrophil count, 
neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio, prothrombin time, 
and procalcitonin, creatine kinase, D-dimer, and IL-6 levels, along with 
decreased lymphocyte count, platelet count, and lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio. 
Lung computed tomography (CT) showed imaging changes strongly linked to severe 
infection. After receiving anti-inflammatory, symptomatic, supportive, and 
antipathogen therapies, 74% of the children displayed clinical symptomatic 
relief, 26% of the children were cured and discharged, and there were no 
fatalities. In Zhuhai, children infected with SARS-CoV-2 commonly exhibit 
family-based transmission, with fever and cough as the predominant symptoms. 
Factors, such as young age, basic illness, specific laboratory markers, and 
patchy exudative changes on lung CT scans, served as critical indicators of 
severe infection. Early detection and monitoring of these factors, along with 
timely vaccination against novel coronavirus, can mitigate disease severity and 
prevent progression.

© 2025 The Author(s). Pediatric Discovery published by John Wiley & Sons 
Australia, Ltd on behalf of Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.

DOI: 10.1002/pdi3.70001
PMCID: PMC12258080
PMID: 40666235

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


36. Aust J Psychol. 2025 Jun 29;77(1):2519037. doi:
10.1080/00049530.2025.2519037.  eCollection 2025.

COVID-19 Unmasked: trajectories, risk and protective factors for mental health 
outcomes in young Australian children during the first year of the COVID-19 
pandemic.

Vasileva M(1), Alisic E(2), Cobham VE(3), Gash T(4), Hoeboer CM(5)(6)(7), Hoehn 
E(4), March S(8)(9), Donovan C(10), Middeldorp CM(6)(7)(11), Moore R(4), De 
Young A(4)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and 
Psychotherapy, Carl Von Ossietzky University Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany.
(2)School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(3)School of Psychology, The University of Queensland, Queensland, Australia.
(4)Queensland Centre for Perinatal and Infant Mental Health, Children's Health 
Queensland Hospital Health Service, Brisbane, Australia.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Amsterdam Public Health, Mental Health, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(7)Department of Child Psychiatry and Psychology, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam 
Reproduction & Development research institute, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(8)Centre for Health Research and School of Psychology and Wellbeing, University 
of Southern Queensland, Springfield, Australia.
(9)Manna Institute, University of Southern Queensland, Toowoomba, Australia.
(10)Griffith Centre for Mental Health, School of Applied Psychology, Griffith 
University, Brisbane, Australia.
(11)Child Health Research Centre, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Emerging evidence suggests a negative impact of COVID-19 on 
children's mental health. The aims of this study were to examine trajectories of 
mental health in children younger than 6 years as well as risk and protective 
factors during the first year of the pandemic.
METHOD: In a prospective, longitudinal online study, data were collected on N = 
837 children aged 1 to 5 years in Australia between May and July 2020 and after 
3, 6 and 12 months, with n = 257 participating at all 4 timepoints. Individual 
trajectories ofanxiety, anger/irritability, depressive symptoms and sleep 
disturbance were analysed using latent growth mixture modelling.
RESULTS: The results showed that 1 in 4 children experienced moderate to severe 
symptoms in each problem domain. The overall means for depressive symptoms, 
anger/irritability, and sleep disturbance decreased while anxiety increased over 
time. For most outcomes, two individual trajectories were identified: 
moderate/high-decreasing (26-29%) andlow-increasing. Important predictors were 
negative COVID-19 related impact on daily life, caregiver distress, lower child 
positive affect and self-regulation.
CONCLUSIONS: The current results highlight that the pandemic indirectly affected 
young children's mental health, especially in the presence of risk factors such 
as caregiver distress and poor child self-regulation skills.

Plain Language Summary: What is already known about this topic: Previous studies 
with children and adolescents have indicated an increase in mental health 
difficulties, especially anxiety, in the first year of the pandemic.There are 
few longitudinal studies mostly using group means in within-pandemic data of 
mental health difficulties in young children.It is likely that children follow 
different trajectories depending on individual coping capacities, experiences, 
and relationships with their parents and within their families. What this topic 
adds: This is the first study focusing on individual trajectories of mental 
health in Australian children younger than 6 years during the first year of the 
pandemic.This study indicated that 1 in 4 children younger than 6 years 
experienced moderate to severe mental health symptoms with increasing overall 
mean scores for depressive symptoms, anger/irritability, and sleep disturbance 
and decreasing anxiety over time.Negative COVID-19 impact on daily life, 
caregiver distress and child difficulties in self-regulation were significant 
predictors of moderate to high trajectories of child mental health difficulties.

© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & 
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/00049530.2025.2519037
PMCID: PMC12218426
PMID: 40666212

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


37. JGH Open. 2025 Jul 14;9(7):e70209. doi: 10.1002/jgh3.70209. eCollection 2025 
Jul.

Post Hoc Analysis of Anxiety and Behavioral Changes in Japanese Patients With 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease due to the COVID-19 Pandemic: Relationship Between 
Municipal Population at the Place of Residence and Anxiety.

Wagatsuma K(1), Nojima M(2), Matsumoto T(3), Matsuura M(4), Iijima H(5), 
Matsuoka K(6), Ohmiya N(7), Ishihara S(8), Hirai F(9), Takeuchi K(10), Tamura 
S(11), Kinjo F(12), Ueno N(13), Naganuma M(14), Watanabe K(15)(16), Moroi R(17), 
Nishimata N(18), Motoya S(19), Kurahara K(20), Takahashi S(21), Maemoto A(22), 
Hiraga H(23), Saruta M(24), Tominaga K(25), Hisabe T(26), Tanaka H(27), Terai 
S(28), Inokuchi T(29), Takedomi H(30), Narimatsu K(31), Endo K(32), Nakamura 
M(33), Hisamatsu T(4), Nakase H(1); J‐DESIRE Group.

Collaborators: Ohwada S, Hirano T, Yokoyama Y, Yamakawa T, Hayashi Y, Ichimiya 
T, Kazama T, Hirayama D, Hazumi A, Kadoya A, Asakura S, Ebisawa N, Yanai S, 
Saito D, Shinzaki S, Yamada A, Nagasaka M, Kawashima K, Kuno N, Shimoyama Y, 
Sugimoto K, Uchima N, Fujiya M, Fukata N, Yokoyama Y, Masamune A, Sameshima Y, 
Kiyomori R, Inaba T, Ito T, Sakuraba H, Toyonaga T, Tanaka T, Koga A, Nasuno M, 
Kawata Y, Hiraoka S, Esaki M, Hokari R, Yoshino Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Sapporo Medical University 
School of Medicine Sapporo Japan.
(2)Center for Translational Research, The Institute of Medical Science, The 
University of Tokyo Minato-ku Japan.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine Iwate Medical 
University Morioka Japan.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Kyorin University School of 
Medicine Mitaka Japan.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Osaka University Graduate 
School of Medicine Suita Japan.
(6)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine 
Toho University Sakura Medical Center Sakura Japan.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology and Advanced Endoscopy Fujita Health 
University School of Medicine Toyoake Japan.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine II Shimane University Faculty of Medicine 
Izumo Japan.
(9)Department of Gastroenterology, Faculty of Medicine Fukuoka University 
Fukuoka Japan.
(10)Department of Gastroenterology IBD Center, Tsujinaka Hospital Kashiwanoha 
Kashiwa Japan.
(11)First Department of Medicine Hamamatsu University School of Medicine 
Hamamatsu Japan.
(12)Center for Gastroenterology, Urasoe General Hospital Urasoe Japan.
(13)Department of General Medicine Asahikawa Medical University Hospital 
Asahikawa Japan.
(14)Third Department of Internal Medicine Kansai Medical University Hirakata 
Hirakata Japan.
(15)Department of Gastroenterology Hyogo Medical University Nishinomiya Japan.
(16)Department of Internal Medicine for Inflammatory Bowel Disease Toyama 
University Hospital Toyama Japan.
(17)Division of Gastroenterology Tohoku University Hospital Sendai Japan.
(18)Department of Gastroenterology Sameshima Hospital Kagoshima Japan.
(19)IBD Center, Sapporo Kosei General Hospital Sapporo Japan.
(20)Division of Gastroenterology Matsuyama Red Cross Hospital Matsuyama Japan.
(21)Department of Gastroenterology Kagawa Prefectural Central Hospital Takamatsu 
Japan.
(22)Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center, Sapporo Higashi Tokushukai Hospital 
Sapporo Japan.
(23)Department of Gastroenterology, Hematology and Clinical Immunology Hirosaki 
University Graduate School of Medicine Hirosaki Japan.
(24)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine 
The Jikei University School of Medicine Minato-ku Japan.
(25)Department of Gastroenterology Dokkyo Medical University Mibu Japan.
(26)Department of Gastroenterology Fukuoka University Chikushi Hospital 
Chikushino Japan.
(27)Sapporo IBD Clinic Sapporo Japan.
(28)Division of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences 
Niigata University Niigata Japan.
(29)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine Okayama Japan.
(30)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine Saga University Saga Japan.
(31)Department of Internal Medicine National Defense Medical College Tokorozawa 
Japan.
(32)Division of Gastroenterology Tohoku Medical and Pharmaceutical University 
Sendai Japan.
(33)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Nagoya University Graduate 
School of Medicine Nagoya Japan.

AIMS: The Japan COVID-19 Survey and the Questionnaire for Inflammatory Bowel 
Disease (J-DESIRE) identified multiple factors associated with anxiety regarding 
the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). However, no regional differences 
in anxiety were observed. In this post hoc analysis of J-DESIRE, we investigated 
the relationship between the municipal population size at the place of residence 
(MPSPR) and anxiety among patients with IBD in Japan during the COVID-19 
pandemic.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We analyzed 2958 questionnaires collected from patients 
with IBD aged ≥ 16 years between March 2020 and June 2021. The primary endpoint 
was the association between the visual analogue scale (VAS) scores of anxiety 
and MPSPR during the COVID-19 pandemic. The mean VAS score for anxiety was 
higher than the overall mean VAS score in municipalities with large and small 
populations, while it was lower in municipalities with medium populations. 
Therefore, we categorized the population into three groups based on MPSPR: 
≤ 150 000, 150 001-1 000 000, and ≥ 1 000 001. The three groups had different 
background factors, contents of anxiety, and sources of information regarding 
therapeutic drugs. These differences may have led to differences in the degree 
and content of anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS: We investigated the association between anxiety in Japanese 
patients with IBD and MPSPR nationwide during the COVID-19 pandemic in Japan. 
The results obtained in this analysis are useful not only in special situations 
such as the COVID-19 pandemic but also for considering regional differences in 
medical care.

© 2025 The Author(s). JGH Open published by Journal of Gastroenterology and 
Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jgh3.70209
PMCID: PMC12260211
PMID: 40666190

Conflict of interest statement: Takayuki Matsumoto reports receiving personal 
fees from Janssen, Tanabe‐Mitsubishi Pharmaceutical, EA Pharma, Takeda 
Pharmaceutical, and scholarship grants from Nippon Kayaku, Tanabe‐Mitsubishi 
Pharmaceutical. Minoru Matsuura reports receiving personal fees from AbbVie GK, 
Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Pfizer Inc., 
Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., JIMRO Co. Ltd., Kissei Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., 
Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd., Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Zeria Pharmaceutical Co. 
Ltd., Viatris Inc., Sandoz K.K., and EA pharma Co. Ltd. Katsuyoshi Matsuoka 
reports receiving personal fees from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, AbbVie, Takeda 
Pharmaceutical, EA Pharma, Janssen Pharmaceutical, Pfizer, Mochida 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Kissei Pharmaceutical 
Co. Ltd., Gilead Sciences Inc., Eli Lilly, Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd., Celltrion 
Healthcare, research grants from Janssen Pharmaceutical, and scholarship grants 
from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, AbbVie, EA Pharma, Mochida Pharmaceutical, JIMRO, 
Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd. Shunji Ishihara reports receiving personal fees from 
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Janssen 
Pharmaceutical K.K., Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd., Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Zeria 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., JIMRO Co. Ltd., EA 
Pharma Co. Ltd., AbbVie GK, KISSEI Pharmaceutical Co., KYORIN Pharmaceutical Co. 
Ltd., Pfizer Japan Inc., and Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Co. Fumihito Hirai reports 
receiving personal fees from AbbVie GK, EA Pharma Co. Ltd., Janssen 
Pharmaceutical K.K., Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma 
Co., Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., research grants from Eli Lily Japan K.K., 
Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., AbbVie GK., and scholarship grants from AbbVie GK, 
EA Pharma Co. Ltd., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co. 
Ltd., Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Co. Ken Takeuchi 
reports receiving personal fees from Mochida, AbbVie, Janssen pharma, Pfizer, 
and EA Pharma, and research grants from AbbVie, Takeda, Eli Lilly, Celgene, Shin 
Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, EA Pharma, Astra Zeneca, and Janssen pharma. 
Nobuhiro Ueno reports receiving grants from Pfizer Inc. Makoto Naganuma reports 
receiving research grant fees from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, AbbVie 
GK, Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Alfresa Pharma Corporation and lecture fees 
from Tanabe Pharma Corporation, AbbVie GK, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., JIMRO 
Co. Ltd., Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., Gilead Sciences Inc. EA Pharma Co. Ltd., 
and Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Kenji Watanabe reports receiving personal 
fees from, AbbVie Japan Co. Ltd., EA Pharma Co. Ltd., Pfizer Japan Inc., Takeda 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Kyorin 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., and Kissei 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., research grants from EA Pharma Co. Ltd., Takeda 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., and EP‐CRSU Co. Ltd., scholarship grants from AbbVie 
Japan Co. Ltd., EA Pharma Co. Ltd., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, JIMRO 
Co. Ltd., and Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd., and endowed chair from AbbVie Japan Co. 
Ltd., EA Pharma Co. Ltd., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, ZERIA 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., JIMRO Co. Ltd., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Inc., 
Asahi Kasei Medical Co. Ltd., and Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Satoshi Motoya 
reports receiving personal fees from AbbVie GK, Mitsubishi‐Tanabe Pharma 
Corporation, Mochida Pharma Corporation, Takeda Pharmaceutical Corporation, and 
Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., and scholarship grants from AbbVie GK, Eli Lilly 
Japan K.K., and Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K. Atsuo Maemoto reports receiving 
research grants from Gilead Sciences Inc., Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., Eli 
Lilly Japan K.K., Takeda Pharmaceutica Company, Pfizer R&D Japan G.K. Masayuki 
Saruta reports receiving personal fees from AbbVie GK, Janssen Pharmaceutical 
K.K., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Co. Ltd., Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., EA 
Pharma Co. Ltd., Kissei Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. 
Ltd., Viatris Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Nobelpharma Co. Ltd., and Gilead Sciences 
K.K., research grants from AbbVie GK, CMIC CMO Co. Ltd., PPD‐SNBL K.K., and 
scholarship grants from AbbVie GK, Zeria Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Mochida 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., and Kissei Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Hiroki Tanaka 
reports receiving personal fees from JIMRO Co. Ltd., AbbVie GK, EA Pharma Co. 
Ltd., Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Kissei 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Eisai Co. Ltd., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, 
Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., Nikkiso Co. Ltd., Takeda Pharmaceutical, and 
research grants from AbbVie GK, Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., EA Pharma, Takeda 
Pharmaceutical. Tadakazu Hisamatsu reports receiving personal fees from EA 
pharma Co. Ltd., AbbVie GK, Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., Pfizer Inc., Nichi‐Iko 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Kyorin 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., JIMRO Co., Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Eli Lilly, 
Gilead Sciences, Bristol Myers Squibb, and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., 
research grants from Kissei Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and EA pharma Co. Ltd., and 
scholarship grants from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, EA pharma Co. 
Ltd., AbbVie GK, JIMRO Co. Ltd., Zeria Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Kyorin 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd., Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., 
Pfizer Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation, and Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. 
Hiroshi Nakase reports receiving personal fees from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma 
Corporation, Abbvie Inc., Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K, VIATRIS Inc., Pfizer Japan 
Inc., Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., EA Pharma Co. Ltd., Mochida Pharmaceutical 
Co. Ltd., Gilead Sciences Inc., Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd., and research grants 
from Hoya Group Pentax Medical, Abbvie Inc., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma 
Corporation, Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., AYUMI Pharmaceutical Corporation, 
and scholarship grants from Abbvie Inc., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., EA 
Pharma Co. Ltd., TAIHO Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd., 
Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. He was 
endowed chair by MIYARISAN Pharmaceutical Co., JIMRO Co. Ltd., KYORIN 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.


38. Front Health Serv. 2025 Jul 1;5:1650412. doi: 10.3389/frhs.2025.1650412. 
eCollection 2025.

Correction: External relationships as implementation determinants in 
community-engaged, equity-focused COVID-19 vaccination events.

Moore R(1), Callaghan-Koru J(1), Vincenzo JL(2), Patton SK(3), Spear MJ(4), 
Riklon S(5), Alik E(6), Padilla Ramos A(5), Takamaru S(7), McElfish PA(1), 
Curran GM(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Office of Community Health and Research, College of Medicine, University of 
Arkansas for Medical Sciences Northwest, Springdale, AR, United States.
(2)Geriatrics, College of Health Professions, University of Arkansas for Medical 
Sciences Northwest, Fayetteville, AR, United States.
(3)Nursing, College of Education and Health Professions, University of Arkansas, 
Fayetteville, AR, United States.
(4)Office of Community Health and Research, University of Arkansas for Medical 
Sciences Northwest, Springdale, AR, United States.
(5)Department of Family Medicine, Family Medicine Residency Training Program, 
College of Medicine, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences Northwest, 
Fayetteville, AR, United States.
(6)Consulate General of Arkansas, Republic of the Marshall Islands, Springdale, 
AR, United States.
(7)Arkansas Coalition of Marshallese, Springdale, AR, United States.
(8)Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Pharmacy, University of Arkansas 
for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, United States.
(9)Center for Mental Healthcare and Outcomes Research, Central Arkansas Veterans 
Healthcare System, North Little Rock, AR, United States.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/frhs20241338622.].

© 2025 Moore, Callaghan-Koru, Vincenzo, Patton, Spear, Riklon, Alik, Padilla 
Ramos, Takamaru, McElfish and Curran.

DOI: 10.3389/frhs.2025.1650412
PMCID: PMC12259622
PMID: 40666168


39. ERS Monogr. 2025 Apr;2025:12-31. doi: 10.1183/2312508x.10006124.

Advances in gas-exchange physiology and pathophysiology.

Hopkins SR(1)(2), Prisk GK(1)(3), Wagner PD(3).

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary Imaging Laboratory, UC San Diego Health Sciences, La Jolla, CA.
(2)Department of Radiology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA.

Although respiratory gas exchange is a mature field, recent research brings new 
insights and techniques for patient evaluation. While some gases suffer 
pulmonary diffusion limitation, others do not, explained by comparing their 
solubility in the alveolar wall to their solubility (dissociation curve slope) 
in blood. Well-established concepts of shunt and deadspace are revisited with 
new computerized analyses and measurement approaches showing that in COVID-19, 
abnormal gas exchange reflects not just shunts but also alveolar deadspace 
suggesting vascular obstruction (sometimes persisting for months). So-called 
"silent hypoxia" in COVID-19 likely reflects normal variation in hypoxic 
ventilatory responsiveness; in most patients, arterial PCO2 is normal or 
reduced. Evidence that COVID-19 impairs neurological pathways of breathing 
control is not strong. Finally, we review O2 transport from air to mitochondria 
as an interactive system (lungs, heart, blood, tissues) where all components 
function in ways that affect each other. This systems approach enables 
separation and quantification of central and peripheral contributions to 
impaired O2 transport.

DOI: 10.1183/2312508x.10006124
PMCID: PMC12260787
PMID: 40666165


40. Front Public Health. 2025 Jul 1;13:1603708. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1603708. 
eCollection 2025.

Italian healthcare professionals' role in advancing reforms within the Italian 
National Healthcare System, as outlined in the National Recovery and Resilience 
Plan.

Giusti M(1)(2), Beux A(2)(3), Calandra T(4), Lorusso S(5), Gazzaniga PA(6), 
Bonaccorsi G(7), Greco G(8), Persiani N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, 
Florence, Italy.
(2)Centro Studi SAPIS Foundation, Italian National Federation of Orders of 
Radiographers and Technical, Rehabilitation, and Prevention Health Professions 
Research Centre, Rome, Italy.
(3)Azienda Ospedaliero Universitaria Città della Salute e della Scienza, Turin, 
Italy.
(4)Azienda Sanitaria Locale di Colegno e Pinerolo, Colegno, Turin, Italy.
(5)Ministry of Health, Rome, Italy.
(6)MEDGLOX, Ivrea, Italy.
(7)Department of Health Sciences, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
(8)School of Human Sciences, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: In 2021, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) outlined 
the foundational pillars for Italy's economic recovery following the COVID-19 
pandemic. Within PNRR's Mission 6 "Health", guidelines were established to 
reform the Italian healthcare system, focusing on community-based services and 
digitalization. This ambitious reform aims to shift from a hospital-centred 
model to a patient-centred one that promotes integrated provision of social and 
healthcare services.
METHODS: The lack of institutional working groups to incorporate input from all 
Italian recognized healthcare professionals into PNRR's implementation, the 
National Federation of Orders of Radiographers and Technical, Rehabilitative, 
and Prevention Health Professionals (FNO TSRM & PSTRP) addressed this gap by 
initiating a study.
RESULTS: The contributions from the 19 Italian Allied Health Professionals 
(AHPs) affiliated with the FNO TSRM & PSTRP were collected to identify priority 
areas and formulate actionable recommendations aimed at enhancing the 
organizational model of reformed Italian healthcare system outlined by the PNRR, 
which had been predominantly focused on nursing care.
DISCUSSION: Adopting a multi-professional and multidisciplinary approach could 
better address social and health needs of the population by leveraging the 
expertise of all registered Italian health professionals. This approach aligns 
Italian healthcare system with European standards, addressing issues such as 
task shifting and shortages in professional resources. Ultimately, this study 
provides concrete insights for Italian policymakers and healthcare leaders to 
foster greater inclusion of Italian AHPs in the design and implementation of the 
current and future reforms on national healthcare system.

Copyright © 2025 Giusti, Beux, Calandra, Lorusso, Gazzaniga, Bonaccorsi, Greco 
and Persiani.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1603708
PMCID: PMC12259606
PMID: 40666155

Conflict of interest statement: PG was employed by company MEDGLOX. The 
remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any 
commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest.


41. Front Public Health. 2025 Jul 1;13:1566167. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1566167. 
eCollection 2025.

Challenges and opportunities for early childhood intervention services in 
Singapore: addressing user satisfaction.

Kim S(1), Zhang X(1), Sawant S(2), Poon KK(3), Khoo PC(4), Wong CM(5), Daniel 
LM(6), Law EC(7)(8), Lee E(9), Leong V(10).

Author information:
(1)Public Policy and Global Affairs Programme, School of Social Sciences, 
Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Department of Psychology, School of Social Sciences, Nanyang Technological 
University (NTU), Singapore, Singapore.
(3)The Centre for Research in Child Development at the National Institution of 
Education, Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore, Singapore.
(4)Department of Neonatology, KK Women's and Children's Hospital, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(5)Department of Child Development and Neonatology, KK Women's and Children's 
Hospital, Singapore, Singapore.
(6)Department of Child Development, KK Women's and Children's Hospital, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(7)Department of Paediatrics, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(8)Institute for Human Development and Potential, Agency for Science, Technology 
and Research, Singapore, Singapore.
(9)SingHealth, Singapore, Singapore.
(10)Early Mental Potential and Wellbeing Research (EMPOWER) Centre, Nanyang 
Technological University (NTU), Singapore, Singapore.

Since the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been a gap between primary stakeholders' 
ex ante expectations of adaptive early childhood intervention (ECI) services and 
their actual experiences with these services. This is despite governments' and 
service operators' swift pivot from on-site service delivery to home-based, 
virtual and hybrid modes, and cross-sector collaboration with private providers 
and pre-schools. In this article, we share our preliminary evidence from 
in-depth interviews with parents and clinicians regarding the perceived 
challenges to post-pandemic ECI services. We discuss how the crisis has 
triggered a paradigm change, especially regarding potential drivers for 
satisfactory services in the Singapore context.

Copyright © 2025 Kim, Zhang, Sawant, Poon, Khoo, Wong, Daniel, Law, Lee and 
Leong.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1566167
PMCID: PMC12261984
PMID: 40666152

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


42. Front Public Health. 2025 Jul 1;13:1618347. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1618347. 
eCollection 2025.

How politics affect pandemic forecasting: spatio-temporal early warning 
capabilities of different geo-social media topics in the context of state-level 
political leaning.

Arifi D(1)(2), Resch B(1)(3), Santillana M(4)(5), Knoblauch S(6)(7)(8), 
Lautenbach S(6), Jaenisch T(9)(10), Morales I(10).

Author information:
(1)IT:U Interdisciplinary Transformation University Austria, Linz, Austria.
(2)Geoinformatics Department - Z_GIS, University of Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria.
(3)Center for Geographic Analysis, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, United 
States.
(4)Machine Intelligence Group for the Betterment of Health and the Environment, 
Northeastern University, Boston, MA, United States.
(5)Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, Department of Epidemiology, 
Boston, MA, United States.
(6)Klaus Tschira Stiftung, Heidelberg Institute for Geoinformation Technology, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(7)Interdisciplinary Centre of Scientific Computing, Heidelberg University, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(8)GIScience Chair, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(9)Colorado School of Public Health, University of Colorado Boulder, Aurora, CO, 
United States.
(10)Department of Infectious Diseases, Heidelberg University Hospital, 
Heidelberg, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Due to political polarization, adherence to public health measures 
varied across US states during the COVID-19 pandemic. Although social media 
posts have been shown effective in anticipating COVID-19 surges, the impact of 
political leaning on the effectiveness of different topics for early warning 
remains mostly unexplored. Our study examines the spatio-temporal early warning 
potential of different geo-social media topics across republican, democrat, and 
swing states.
METHODS: Using keyword filtering, we identified eight COVID-19-related 
geo-social media topics. We then utilized Chatterjee's rank correlation to 
assess their early warning capability for COVID-19 cases 7 to 42 days in advance 
across six infection waves. A mixed-effect model was used to evaluate the impact 
of timeframe and political leaning on the early warning capabilities of these 
topics.
RESULTS: Many topics exhibited significant spatial clustering over time, with 
quarantine and vaccination-related posts occurring in opposing spatial regimes 
in the second timeframe. We also found significant variation in the early 
warning capabilities of geo-social media topics over time and across political 
clusters. In detail, quarantine related geo-social media post were significantly 
less correlated to COVID-19 cases in republican states than in democrat states. 
Further, preventive measure and quarantine-related posts exhibited declining 
correlations to COVID-19 cases over time, while the correlations of vaccine and 
virus-related posts with COVID-19 infections.
CONCLUSION: Our results highlight the need for a dynamic spatially targeted 
approach that accounts for both how regional geosocial media topics of interest 
change over time and the impact of local political ideology on their 
epidemiological early warning capabilities.

Copyright © 2025 Arifi, Resch, Santillana, Knoblauch, Lautenbach, Jaenisch and 
Morales.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1618347
PMCID: PMC12259613
PMID: 40666148

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


43. Oxf Med Case Reports. 2025 Jul 14;2025(7):omaf102. doi: 10.1093/omcr/omaf102.
 eCollection 2025 Jul.

Catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome in a young patient: a case report of 
severe multi-organ and cardiovascular involvement.

Desamour P(1), Alshwayyat S(2)(3)(4), Alvarez L(5), Almasri N(6), Hanifa H(7).

Author information:
(1)Florida international University Herbert Wertheim College of Medicine, 
Florida, United States.
(2)Research Associate, King Hussein Cancer Center, Amman, Jordan.
(3)Internship, Princess Basma Teaching Hospital, Irbid, Jordan.
(4)Applied Science Research Center, Applied Science Private University, Amman, 
Jordan.
(5)Ross University School of Medicine, Florida, United States.
(6)University of Jordan,  Amman, Jordan.
(7)Faculty of Medicine, University of Kalamoon, Al-Nabk, Syria.

Catastrophic Antiphospholipid Syndrome (CAPS) is a rare serious form of APS 
characterized by thrombosis in multiple organs and a cytokine storm. We report a 
complex case of a 28-year-old female that tested positive for COVID-19 with a 
medical history of deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolus and systemic lupus 
erythematosus, with underlying APC, complicating her case of CAPS in multiple 
organs. Computed Tomography (CT) PE reveled extensive pulmonary emboli and an 
elevated right/left ventricular ratio (RV/LV). CT of the abdomen and pelvis 
showed gastritis, ascites and anasarca, fluid accumulation and small bilateral 
pleural effusions. Urinalysis showed low levels of albumin, urine protein 4+ g, 
and hyperlipidemia. Laboratory test indicated that the patient has developed a 
worsening non oliguric acute kidney injury and renal biopsy revealed 
necrotizing. This is a complex case that contributes to the understanding of 
CAPS and highlights the challenges of its diagnosis and management.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/omcr/omaf102
PMCID: PMC12258023
PMID: 40666060

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


44. J Clin Transl Sci. 2025 Jun 13;9(1):e134. doi: 10.1017/cts.2025.10063. 
eCollection 2025.

Trends in turnover and turbulence at a large academic medical center before and 
during COVID-19: Analyzing structured clinical research professional roles.

Stroo M(1)(2)(3), Reyes C(1)(2)(3), Deeter C(1)(2)(3), Freel SA(1)(2)(3), 
Gaudaur H(4), Sloane R(2), Snyder DC(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Duke Office of Clinical Research, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(2)School of Medicine, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(3)Clinical and Translational Science Institute, Duke University, Durham, NC, 
USA.
(4)Rewards and Recognition, Duke Human Resources, Duke University, Durham, NC, 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: High workforce turbulence has plagued clinical research, becoming 
intensified during the COVID-19 pandemic, especially for patient-facing workers. 
In a time of great uncertainty and risk among healthcare workers, researchers 
included, the pandemic also brought increased demand for research studies in 
volume, speed, and complexity, triggering elevated staff turnover. This has 
posed significant hurdles for employers, especially research sites, where 
retaining skilled patient-facing clinical research professionals (CRPs) is 
pivotal for sustaining medical innovation. Lack of job standardization and 
advancement pathways has been noted to play an important role both in turnover 
and contributes to the inability to accurately measure workforce trends. To 
address these factors, Duke University adopted a competency-based job 
classification system for CRPs in 2016.
METHODS: Since that adoption of competency-based jobs, employee-level staffing 
data for all CRPs have been tracked monthly, creating a master data file from 
September 2016 through June 2024. This study updates previous analyses, 
evaluating turnover and turbulence rates, and demographic changes in the CRP 
workforce over this period.
RESULTS: Over the last six years, the Duke CRP workforce remained relatively 
stable. Voluntary turnover rates fluctuated, peaking at 19.1% in FY 2021 during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, and have steadily declined each year since then.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite national workforce challenges exacerbated by the pandemic, 
our data indicate that proactive measures to standardize clinical research jobs 
and assess the resultant well-defined site-based employee data may have 
mitigated extremes in workforce turnover at Duke University. Turbulence rates, 
while stabilizing, signal areas for further study.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1017/cts.2025.10063
PMCID: PMC12260974
PMID: 40665971

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


45. J Clin Transl Sci. 2025 Jun 2;9(1):e130. doi: 10.1017/cts.2025.10067. 
eCollection 2025.

Academic influencers: Clinical and Translational Science scholars and trainees 
at the intersection of influential scholarship and public attention.

Nehl EJ(1)(2), Pelfrey CM(3), DiazGranados D(4), Dave G(5), Llewellyn NM(2).

Author information:
(1)Georgia Clinical and Translational Science Alliance, Emory University School 
of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(2)Emory University Rollins School of Public Health, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(4)Virginia Commonwealth University, Psychiatry, Wright Regional Center for 
Clinical and Translational Science, Richmond, VA, USA.
(5)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Clinical and Translational Science trainees are motivated to 
publish influential research. However, the extent to which this work gains 
influence with the public is largely unknown.
METHODS: The authors identified over 30,000 publications that received KL2 or 
TL1 grant support through a Clinical and Translational Science Awards hub, from 
2006 through January 2024. The Altmetric Explorer database was then used, to 
collect references in sources such as news articles, tweets, and blogs. We 
investigated bibliometric characteristics and content areas, provide 
illustrative examples of influence, and determine the characteristics most 
likely to gain public attention.
RESULTS: Articles were published in 3,923 journals with a mean Journal Impact 
Factor (JIF) of 5.78, a mean Relative Citation Ratio (RCR) score of 2.02, and 
were cited an average of 33.7 times, totaling 1,017,291 citations. Over 4,800 
were referenced in policy and were mentioned in over 64K news articles, 7K blog 
posts, and 480K X (Twitter) posts. The mean Altmetric Attention Score was 28.9, 
with 18.5% having scores of 20 or higher. Nearly 30% were related to COVID-19, 
indicating close public attention to this important health topic. Regression 
analyses indicate that higher JIF, being published after 2020, receiving more 
Mendeley downloads, higher RCR scores, being cited by in policy, and fewer 
academic citations, were more likely to receive altmetric attention.
CONCLUSIONS: By demonstrating how supported research has influence beyond 
academia to become "Academic Influencers," this study represents a significant 
advance in our ability to evaluate translational research impact.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1017/cts.2025.10067
PMCID: PMC12260972
PMID: 40665970

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare none.


46. Muscle Nerve. 2025 Jul 16. doi: 10.1002/mus.28479. Online ahead of print.

Virtual EMG: Safe and Effective Remote Supervision and Reporting.

Brouillette K(1), Bacher C(2), Kassardjian CD(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.
(2)Scarborough Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, St. 
Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Investigator, li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Neurology Quality and Innovation Lab (NQIL), Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The COVID-19 pandemic accelerated the implementation of virtual care in 
healthcare, revealing challenges and opportunities in the use of remote 
healthcare services. Electromyography (EMG) traditionally requires in-person 
interaction, limiting access for patients in remote or underserved areas. This 
study explores the feasibility of performing needle EMG remotely, a concept 
referred to as "virtual EMG," whereby an experienced clinician supervises a 
technician from a different location using virtual tools. We developed a system 
utilizing remote video technology, a high-resolution camera, and Bluetooth 
communication devices to allow real-time observation and guidance of EMG 
procedures. The system was tested across three phases: (1) initial setup within 
the same facility, (2) refinement with higher quality video and communication 
tools, and (3) application in a clinical scenario involving a complex patient 
case. Our findings suggest that virtual EMG can be performed safely and 
effectively, providing accurate diagnostic information while reducing the need 
for patient travel and in-person contact. The implementation of virtual EMG has 
the potential to improve access to neuromuscular diagnostics, especially in 
rural and remote areas, aligning with the healthcare goals of enhancing patient 
experience, reducing costs, and promoting access. Further investigations are 
needed to validate this approach across various clinical scenarios and 
geographical locations.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/mus.28479
PMID: 40665960


47. Small. 2025 Jul 16:e2500719. doi: 10.1002/smll.202500719. Online ahead of
print.

Polysialosides Outperform Sulfated Analogs for Binding with SARS-CoV-2.

Khatri V(1)(2), Boback N(1)(3)(4), Abdelwahab H(5), Niemeyer D(6), Palmer 
TM(3)(4), Sahoo AK(5), Kerkhoff Y(7)(8), Ludwig K(7), Heinze J(6), Balci D(1), 
Trimpert J(9), Haag R(1), Povolotsky TL(4), Netz RR(5), Drosten C(6), Lauster 
DC(3), Bhatia S(10).

Author information:
(1)Freie Universität Berlin, Institute of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Takustr. 
3, 14195, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Chemistry, TDL Govt. College for Women Murthal, Sonipat, 
Haryana, 131027, India.
(3)Freie Universität Berlin, Institute of Pharmacy, Biopharmaceuticals, 
Kelchstr. 31, 12169, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Freie Universität Berlin, SupraFAB, Department of Biology, Chemistry and 
Pharmacy, and Department of Physics, Altensteinstr. 23a, 14195, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Freie Universität Berlin, Department of Physics, Arnimallee 14, 14195, 
Berlin, Germany.
(6)Institute of Virology, Campus Berlin Mitte, Charité - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, 10117, Berlin, Germany.
(7)Freie Universität Berlin, Forschungszentrum für Elektronenmikroskopie, 
Core-Facility BioSupraMol, Institute of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Fabeckstraße 
36a, 14195, Berlin, Germany.
(8)IT & Data Services, Zuse Institute Berlin, Takustraße 7, 14195, Berlin, 
Germany.
(9)Department of Pathobiology and Diagnostic Medicine, Kansas State University, 
1800 Denison Avenue, Manhattan, KS, 66506, USA.
(10)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Engineering, Swansea 
University, Singleton Campus, Swansea, SA2 8PP, United Kingdom.

Both polysialosides and polysulfates are known to interact with the receptor 
binding domain (RBD) of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. However, a comprehensive 
site by site analysis of their binding affinities and potential synergistic 
antiviral effects have not been performed. Here, we report on the synthesis of 
polysialosides with nanomolar binding affinities to spike proteins of SARS-CoV-2 
in solution using microscale thermophoresis. The dendritic polyglycerol based 
polysialosides dPG500SA0.55 and dPG500SA0.25, with a dissociation constant Kd of 
4.78 nm and 10.85 nm, respectively, bind ≈500 times stronger than the high 
density polysulfated analog dPG500S0.55, to intact SARS-CoV-2 virus particles or 
isolated spike protein. In fact, the presence of sulfate groups in a 
heteromultivalent compound dPG500SA0.20S0.20 weakens the binding to spike 
proteins. A polycarboxylated analog does not bind to SARS-CoV-2, ruling out that 
the interaction of polysialoside is simply driven by electrostatics. Using 
explicit-solvent all-atom molecular dynamics simulations and ensemble docking 
studies, atomistic details are obtained on the interaction of different 
functional groups with the SARS-CoV-2 RBD. The data support the conclusion that 
sialosides interact stronger than sulfates for their binding with RBD of 
SARS-CoV-2. Notably, the most affine binder dPG500SA0.55 inhibits SARS-CoV-2 
(WT, D614G) replication up to 98.6% at 0.5 µm concentrations.

© 2025 The Author(s). Small published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202500719
PMID: 40665883


48. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2025 Jul;34(7):e70180. doi: 10.1002/pds.70180.

How COVID-19 Treatment in Pregnancy Reflects Healthcare Utilization During a 
Pandemic: A Two-Stage Individual Participant Data Meta-Analysis Combining 
Case-Based Registries.

Maisonneuve E(1)(2)(3)(4), De Bruin O(5)(6), Favre G(1)(7), Oakley E(8), Kim 
JYH(8), Farooq F(8), Al-Fadel N(9), Almutairi A(9), Del Mar Gil M(10)(11)(12), 
Fernandez Buhigas I(10)(12), Visentin S(13), Cosmi E(13), Surita F(14), Souza 
RT(14), Cecatti JG(14), Costa ML(14), Sanin-Blair J(15), Tolosa JE(15)(16)(17), 
Hadar E(18), Goncé A(19), Poncelet C(20), Forestier F(20), Quibel T(21), 
Martinez de Tejada B(22), Eggel-Hort B(1)(6), Capoccia Brugger R(23), Surbek 
D(24), Raio L(24), Radan AP(24), Todesco-Bernasconi M(25), Monod C(26), Schäffer 
L(27), Harnadi A(27), Mousavi SH(28)(29), Ayres-de-Campos D(30), Pomar L(1)(31), 
Sichitiu J(1)(32), Salomon LJ(32), Ville Y(32), Papadia A(33), Rossier MC(7), 
Schuler-Faccini L(34), Goncalves Pereira N(35), Etchegaray A(36), Nieto-Calvache 
AJ(37), Geary M(38), Fuenzalida J(39), Grawe C(40), Ko AI(41), Johann S(42), De 
Santis M(43), Voekt CA(44), Hcini N(45), Nielsen-Saines K(46), Garabedian C(47), 
Sentilhes L(48), May Feuerschuette OH(49), Vetter G(50), Wardhana MP(51), Dajti 
I(52), Bloemenkamp KWM(6), Siiskonen SJ(53), Smith ER(8), Baud D(1), Panchaud 
A(2)(54), Sturkenboom MCJM(5).

Author information:
(1)Materno-Fetal and Obstetrics Research Unit, Department "Femme-Mère-Enfant", 
University Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Primary Health Care (BIHAM), University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(3)Graduate School for Health Sciences (GHS), University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(4)Obstetrics Department, Zürich University Hospital, Zürich, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Data Science and Biostatistics, Julius Global Health, 
University Medical Center Utrecht (UMCU), Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Obstetrics, Wilhelmina Children's Hospital, University Medical 
Center Utrecht (UMCU), Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Riviera-Chablais Hospital, Rennaz, 
Switzerland.
(8)Department of Global Health, The George Washington University Milken 
Institute School of Public Health, Washington, DC, USA.
(9)Saudi Food and Drug Authority, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(10)Hospital Universitario de Torrejón, Madrid, Spain.
(11)Obstetrics and Gynecology Department, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, 
Spain.
(12)School of Medicine, Universidad Francisco de Vitoria, Madrid, Spain.
(13)University of Padova, Padova, Italy.
(14)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Universidade Estadual de Campinas 
(UNICAMP), Campinas, Brazil.
(15)Universidad Pontificia Bolivariana, Fundared-Materna, Medellín, Colombia.
(16)St. Luke's University Health Network, Bethlehem, PA, USA.
(17)Oregon Health & Science University, Oregon, USA.
(18)Helen Schneider Hospital for Women, Rabin Medical Center, and the Faculty of 
Medical and Health Sciences, Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(19)Maternal-Fetal Medicine Department, BCNatal-Fetal Medicine Research Center, 
Hospital Clínic and Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(20)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hôpital NOVO Site de Pontoise, 
Cergy-Pontoise, France.
(21)Department of Obstetrics, Maternité Poissy Saint Germain, Poissy, France.
(22)Obstetrics Division, Department of Pediatrics, Gynecology, and Obstetrics, 
Geneva University Hospitals, and Faculty of Medicine, Geneva, Switzerland.
(23)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, RHNE, Neuchâtel, Switzerland.
(24)Department of Obstetrics and Feto-Maternal Medicine, University Hospital of 
Bern, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(25)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Cantonal Hospital Aarau, Aarau, 
Switzerland.
(26)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(27)Division of Obstetrics, Baden Cantonal Hospital, Baden, Switzerland.
(28)Medical Research Center, Kateb University, Kabul, Afghanistan.
(29)Department of Research, Afghanistan National Charity Organization for 
Special Diseases (ANCOSD), Kabul, Afghanistan.
(30)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, University of 
Lisbon; Santa Maria University Hospital, Lisbon, Portugal.
(31)School of Health Sciences (HESAV), University of Applied Sciences and Arts 
Western Switzerland, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(32)Department of Obstetrics and Fetal Medicine, Necker-Enfants Malades 
Hospital, Paris, France.
(33)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Ente Ospedaliero Cantonale, Lugano, 
Switzerland.
(34)Departamento de Genética, Hospital de Clinicas de Porto Alegre, Universidade 
Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(35)Department of Obstetrics and Neonatology, Hospital e Maternidade Sepaco, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(36)Fetal Medicine Unit, Hospital Universitario Austral, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.
(37)Departamenteo de Ginecologia y Obstetricia, Fundación Valle del Lili, Cali, 
Colombia.
(38)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Rotunda Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(39)Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics, Escuela de Medicina, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(40)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Stadtspital Triemli, Zürich, 
Switzerland.
(41)Department of Epidemiology of Microbial Diseases, Yale School of Public 
Health, New Haven, USA.
(42)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Hospital of the Upper Valais, Visp, 
Switzerland.
(43)Telefono Rosso, Teratology Information Service, Fondazione Policlinico 
Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS, Roma, Italy.
(44)Department of Obstetrics, Grabs Hospital, Grabs, Switzerland.
(45)West French Guiana Hospital Center, University of French Guiana, Saint 
Laurent du Maroni, French Guiana.
(46)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, David Geffen UCLA 
School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(47)Department of Obstetrics, CHU Lille, Univ Lille, ULR 2694-METRICS, Lille, 
France.
(48)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Bordeaux University Hospital, 
Bordeaux, France.
(49)Departamento de Ginecologia e Obstetrícia, Hospital Universitário Polydoro 
Ernani de São Thiago, HU-UFSC, Florianópolis, Brazil.
(50)Department of Obstetrics, Kantonsspital Baselland, Liestal, Switzerland.
(51)Obstetrics and Gynecology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Airlangga-Dr. Soetomo Academic General Hospital, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(52)Department of Obstetrics Gynecology, "Koco Gliozheni' University Hospital, 
Tirana, Albania.
(53)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht 
Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.
(54)Service of Pharmacy, Lausanne University Hospital and University of 
Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To describe an international response to the COVID-19 pandemic by 
estimating the prevalence of medication use for COVID-19 treatment in pregnancy, 
stratified by hospitalization, trimester of pregnancy, and country.
METHODS: We conducted a two-stage individual participant data meta-analysis of 
proportions from primary data on medications used to treat COVID-19 during 
pregnancy. A common data model was developed to pool the data from 
single-country and international registries. Data from pregnant individuals with 
COVID-19 between February 2020 and October 2022 were included in study platforms 
across 9 data sources. Patient information was abstracted from medical records.
RESULTS: Among 24 937 pregnant individuals, the pooled prevalences of 
individuals receiving medications to treat COVID-19 were: 34.7% heparin, 9.8% 
antibiotics, 4.9% corticosteroids, 2.2% antivirals, 0.8% antimalarials, 0.3% 
convalescent plasma, 0.2% immunosuppressants, and 0.02% monoclonal antibodies. 
Prevalence of medication use was higher in hospitalized individuals than in 
non-hospitalized individuals: 58.4% versus 17.9% for heparin, 26.9% versus 5.7% 
for antibiotics, 17.5% versus 1.3% for corticosteroids, 10.3% versus 0.3% for 
antivirals, and 4.5% versus 0.1% for antimalarials. The prevalence of 
corticosteroid use was lower in the first trimester (0.1%) compared with the 
second (7.2%) and third (4.9%) trimesters of pregnancy. The prevalence of 
medications differed widely across countries.
CONCLUSION: Medication to treat COVID-19 was more frequently used in pregnant 
individuals hospitalized for COVID-19. Corticosteroids were used less in the 
first trimester of pregnancy. The differences in use between countries could 
reflect differences in the clinical management and access to medications for 
this population at risk of severe disease.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pds.70180
PMID: 40665803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Eur J Immunol. 2025 Jul;55(7):e51848. doi: 10.1002/eji.202551848.

T Cell Response Evaluation After A Fifth Dose of an Inactivated SARS-CoV-2 
Vaccine Using Multiparametric Flow Cytometry.

Román F(1), Reyes A(1), Gutiérrez C(2), Rodríguez-Guilarte L(1), Méndez C(1), 
Moreno-Tapia D(1), Ríos M(1), Cabrera A(3), Carreño LJ(2), González PA(1), Bueno 
SM(1), Kalergis AM(1)(4), Peñaloza HF(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Facultad de Ciencias 
Biológicas, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Programa de 
Inmunología, Instituto de Ciencias Biomédicas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad 
de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Flow Cytometry Facility, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Pontificia 
Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(4)Departamento de Endocrinología, Escuela de Medicina, Facultad de Medicina, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(5)Departamento de Laboratorios Clínicos, Escuela de Medicina, Facultad de 
Medicina, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

The T cell response induced by SARS-CoV-2 vaccines is an essential component of 
immune protection against COVID-19. Multiparametric flow cytometry analysis 
emerges as a valuable tool for in-depth assessment of T cell phenotype nuances 
that occur after booster vaccination, such as a fifth dose of an inactivated 
SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. Figure created with BioRender.com.

© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.202551848
PMID: 40665756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Can J Neurol Sci. 2025 Jul 16:1-9. doi: 10.1017/cjn.2025.10128. Online ahead
of  print.

Complications of Carotid Artery Stenting: A Real-World Cohort Study in Canada 
before and during the COVID-19 Pandemic.

Sim H(1), Steiner K(1), Dewar B(2), Fahed R(1)(2)(3), Roberts DJ(2)(4), Gocan 
S(1), Singh N(5)(6), Chakraborty S(2)(7), Portela de Oliveira E(2)(7), 
Dowlatshahi D(1)(2), Shamy M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada.
(2)Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, Canada.
(3)Department of Medical Imaging, Division of Radiology, University of Ottawa, 
Ottawa, Canada.
(4)Department of Surgery and School of Epidemiology and Public Health, Division 
of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada.
(5)Department of Neurosciences, Radiology and Community Health Sciences, 
University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine (Neurology Division), Rady Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.
(7)Department of Radiology, Radiation Oncology and Medical Physics, University 
of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Although carotid endarterectomy (CEA) or carotid 
artery stenting (CAS) is recommended for symptomatic extracranial carotid 
stenosis of 50-99%, the COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted resources. CAS 
therefore offered potential advantages as access to the angiosuite was seemingly 
easier than access to operating rooms. The primary objective was to determine 
the frequency of serious and non-serious complications following CAS before and 
during the COVID-19 pandemic.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study of consecutive patients who 
received CAS at the Ottawa Hospital, Canada, from June 2019 to May 2021. We 
reviewed baseline demographics, imaging, as well as intraprocedural and 
postprocedural complications based on chart review. We performed multivariable 
logistic regression to determine associations between clinical and safety 
outcomes.
RESULTS: We included 47 patients in the pre-pandemic period and 93 patients in 
the pandemic period (mean age = 70.4 years; 54% female; P = 0.287 for age and P 
= 0.962 for sex, respectively). The combined rate of intraprocedural and 
postprocedural serious complications (ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, 
myocardial infarction or death) was 7.1%. Eight strokes occurred, and one 
patient with a postprocedural ischemic stroke died 11 days after stenting. 
Complication rates were similar before and during the pandemic (aOR 1.040, 95% 
CI 0.466-2.321). The number of referrals for CEA during the pandemic period 
decreased by 50%.
CONCLUSION: In this cohort of consecutive patients undergoing CAS at a Canadian 
comprehensive stroke center before and during the COVID-19 pandemic, the rates 
of stroke and death were similar to pre-pandemic conditions and were generally 
consistent with the published literature.

DOI: 10.1017/cjn.2025.10128
PMID: 40665718


51. Nat Prod Res. 2025 Jul 15:1-8. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2025.2528971. Online
ahead  of print.

Phytochemical analysis of elderberry (Sambucus nigra): focus on non-anthocyanin 
constituents.

Ali Z(1), Zulfiqar F(1), Srivedavyasasri R(1), Aydoğan F(1), Avula B(1), Khan 
IA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Natural Products Research, School of Pharmacy, University 
of Mississippi, University, MS, USA.
(2)Division of Pharmacognosy, Department of Bio-Molecular Sciences, School of 
Pharmacy, University of Mississippi, University, MS, USA.

Elderberry (Sambucus nigra) has received considerable attention for its 
health-promoting properties, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic, when its 
products became one of the top-selling herbal supplements in the United States. 
While the anthocyanin profile of elderberry is well characterised, comprehensive 
studies of its non-anthocyanin constituents are underexplored. An in-depth 
phytochemical investigation of dried elderberry fruits, focusing on 
non-anthocyanin constituents, led to the discovery of a novel iridoid glycoside 
named elderberoside (1). Additionally, ten known metabolites were isolated, 
including an iridoid (2), an alkaloid (3), and eight flavonoids (4-11). 
Structural elucidation of these compounds was achieved through detailed 
one-dimensional (1D) and two-dimensional (2D) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) 
spectroscopy and confirmed by mass spectrometry.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2025.2528971
PMID: 40665633


52. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2025 Dec;21(1):2528409. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2025.2528409. Epub 2025 Jul 15.

Economic evaluations of vaccines against respiratory infections in adults in 
Southeast Asia: A systematic review.

Cao BK(1)(2), Hanifa RS(1), Nguyen TP(2), Postma MJ(1)(3)(4)(5), van der Schans 
J(1)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(2)Faculty of Public Health, Thai Nguyen University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Thai Nguyen, Vietnam.
(3)Center of Excellence in Higher Education for Pharmaceutical Care Innovation, 
Universitas Padjadjaran, Bandung, Indonesia.
(4)Department of Economics, Econometrics, and Finance, University of Groningen, 
Groningen, Netherlands.
(5)Division of Pharmacology & Therapy, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Airlangga, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(6)Department of Economics, Econometrics and Finance, Faculty of Economics and 
Business, University of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(7)Faculty of Management Sciences, Open University, Heerlen, Netherlands.

Respiratory infections significantly impact adult health in Southeast Asia, yet 
vaccine coverage remains low. This systematic review evaluated the economic 
evaluations of vaccines targeting respiratory infections in the region. A 
comprehensive search was conducted across several databases, including 
MEDLINE/PubMed, EMBASE, NHSEED, CINAHL, EconLit, Web of Science, Scopus, and 
Cochrane Library, up to April 24, 2024. Nineteen eligible studies were 
identified, focusing primarily on influenza (8 studies) and COVID-19 vaccines (7 
studies), with fewer studies on pneumococcal (2 studies), varicella (1 study), 
and pertussis (1 study) vaccines. Overall, influenza, COVID-19 (boosters), and 
pneumococcal vaccines were found to be cost-effective or highly cost-effective 
compared to no-vaccine or no-booster scenarios. The only study on maternal 
pertussis vaccination found it not to be cost-effective. The most common 
parameters considered in sensitivity analyses were vaccine efficacy and discount 
rates. This review highlights the economic evaluations of influenza, COVID-19, 
and pneumococcal vaccines in Southeast Asia, providing essential evidence to 
guide vaccine policy. Future studies should address limitations in model 
selection, incorporate herd immunity, ensure the model validation (i.e. validity 
of cost and benefit measurements), and explore the cost-effectiveness of other 
vaccines across the region.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2025.2528409
PMID: 40665593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Nephrology (Carlton). 2025 Jul;30(7):e70097. doi: 10.1111/nep.70097.

Machine Learning Models for Predicting Acute and Chronic Kidney Diseases During 
the Post-Covid-19 Pandemic.

Su CY(1)(2)(3), Hasebe M(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Quantitative Life Sciences, McGill University, Québec, Canada.
(2)McGill Genome Centre, McGill University, Québec, Canada.
(3)Canada Excellence Research Chair in Genomic Medicine, McGill University, 
Québec, Canada.
(4)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Québec, Canada.
(5)Department of Diabetes, Endocrinology and Nutrition, Kyoto University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/nep.70097
PMID: 40665552


54. J Rural Health. 2025 Jun;41(3):e70049. doi: 10.1111/jrh.70049.

Enduring lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic: Advancing virtual care for 
substance use disorders in rural America.

LaPorte TM(1), McGinnis S(1), Lacy G(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Services Research, University at Albany, Albany, New York, 
USA.

PURPOSE: This study explores how rural substance use disorder (SUD) treatment 
providers in New York State adapted to pandemic-era policy changes by rapidly 
adopting virtual care, identifying both challenges and opportunities to inform 
future practice.
METHODS: Thematic analysis of qualitative data from individual interviews with 
12 SUD treatment providers and a focus group with an additional 6 providers in 
rural New York State was conducted between February and May 2021, capturing 
experiences with virtual care during the COVID-19 pandemic.
FINDINGS: The pandemic drove swift virtual care adoption, overcoming some rural 
barriers to SUD treatment access, like limited transportation and provider 
shortages. Providers noted enhanced flexibility, allowing more person-centered 
care adapting to clients' logistical challenges. However, limitations emerged, 
including digital access disparities, reduced client accountability, and 
challenges establishing therapeutic relationships-especially for new clients or 
group sessions. Virtual care effectiveness varied by treatment stage, client 
demographics, and access to reliable technology.
CONCLUSIONS: Although virtual care presents opportunities to expand rural SUD 
treatment access, a hybrid model combining in-person and virtual care may better 
meet diverse client needs. Addressing technological inequities and tailoring 
approaches to individual circumstances are essential for future interventions.

© 2025 National Rural Health Association.

DOI: 10.1111/jrh.70049
PMID: 40665549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2025 Jul 15:10105395251360151. doi: 
10.1177/10105395251360151. Online ahead of print.

Effect of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Trends in Influenza Vaccination and Health 
Screening Among Korean Adults.

Lee YJ(1), Ko KD(2), Hwang IC(2), Ahn HY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Korea University Guro Hospital, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, Gil Medical Center, Gachon University College 
of Medicine, Incheon, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Research and Analysis, National Health Insurance Service Ilsan 
Hospital, Goyang, Republic of Korea.

This study examined the effects of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) on 
influenza vaccination and health screening trends in Korea. A total of 49 299 
individuals aged ≥19 years who participated in the Korea National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey in 2013-2015, 2016-2019, or 2020-2022 (the COVID-19 
era) with available information on influenza vaccination, health screening, and 
cancer screening status were included. Multivariate regression models were used 
to compare the estimated prevalences of behaviors during these 3 phases. The 
COVID-19 pandemic arrested the increasing health screening trend and reversed 
the increasing cancer screening trend, whereas the influenza vaccination rate 
continuously increased, irrespective of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, subgroup 
analysis revealed: (1) that during the COVID-19 pandemic, no increasing trend in 
influenza vaccination was evident for older adults (≥65 years old) or 
individuals with a lower socioeconomic status and (2) that even during COVID-19 
pandemic, older adults and women were more actively screened. In conclusion, the 
COVID-19 pandemic significantly affected influenza vaccination and health 
screening rates among Korean adults but affected specific populations 
differently.

DOI: 10.1177/10105395251360151
PMID: 40665547


56. Clin Respir J. 2025 Jul;19(7):e70104. doi: 10.1111/crj.70104.

Association of COPD With Clinical Outcomes After Hospital Admission in 
SARS-CoV-2 Patients During the Omicron Variant Period: A Retrospective Cohort 
Study.

Tang R(1), Li L(2), Wang S(3), Zhou F(3), Li R(3), Zhao Y(3), Zhou L(3), Tian 
W(3), Yuan Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Hebei Medical University, 
Tangshan Gongren Hospital, Tangshan, China.
(2)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, China-Japan Friendship 
Hospital, National Clinical Research Center of Respiratory Diseases, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Tangshan Gongren 
Hospital, Tangshan, China.
(4)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The Second Hospital of 
Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China.

BACKGROUND: Pre-Omicron studies identified chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) as a significant risk factor for adverse COVID-19 outcomes. Given 
Omicron's altered pathogenicity and widespread population-level immunity, the 
association between COPD and COVID-19 outcomes warrants reassessment in light of 
the variant's distinct clinical profile. We evaluated whether COPD remained a 
risk factor for poor clinical outcomes among hospitalized patients with 
SARS-CoV-2 infection during Omicron predominance.
METHODS: We conducted a two-center retrospective cohort study of 1176 adults 
hospitalized with confirmed Omicron infection between January 2022 and December 
2023 in Northern China. Patients were stratified by pre-existing COPD status. To 
address confounding by treatment selection, inverse probability weighting (IPW) 
was applied based on the likelihood of receiving inhaled corticosteroids. 
Multivariable logistic regression models, adjusted for comorbidities, disease 
severity (as measured by the PSI), inflammatory markers (CRP, D-dimer, NLR, 
LDH), and treatment regimens, were used to evaluate the associations between 
COPD and in-hospital outcomes.
RESULTS: Among 1176 patients (337 COPD; 839 non-COPD), COPD patients had 
significantly lower PSI scores and lower levels of systemic inflammation despite 
a higher prevalence of respiratory comorbidities. In unadjusted models, COPD was 
associated with reduced odds of mortality (OR 0.52), respiratory failure (OR 
0.24), and ventilatory support. However, after IPW adjustment, these 
associations were no longer statistically significant (mortality: adjusted OR 
0.90, 95% CI 0.22-3.74, p = 0.887).
CONCLUSIONS: COPD was not independently associated with increased risk of 
mortality, respiratory failure, or ventilatory support in hospitalized 
Omicron-infected patients after rigorous adjustment for confounding. These 
findings suggest a shifting risk profile for COPD during Omicron predominance, 
likely influenced by variant tropism, treatment effects, and altered 
inflammatory responses. Future prospective studies are warranted to validate 
these findings and explore the mechanisms underlying this observed shift.

© 2025 The Author(s). The Clinical Respiratory Journal published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/crj.70104
PMID: 40665508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Disaster Med Public Health Prep. 2025 Jul 16;19:e185. doi: 
10.1017/dmp.2025.10066.

Journaling During a Disaster: Challenges and Opportunities for Data Collection.

Jenks D(1), Angotti N(2), Madhavan S(3), Henry A(2), Herrera K(4), Mendoza Gomez 
C(5).

Author information:
(1)https://ror.org/00b30xv10University of Pennsylvania, Department of Sociology, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(2)https://ror.org/052w4zt36American University, Department of Sociology, 
Washington DC, USA.
(3)https://ror.org/047s2c258University of Maryland, Department of African 
American and Africana Studies, Department of Sociology, College Park, MD, USA.
(4)https://ror.org/047s2c258University of Maryland, Department of Education, 
College Park, MD, USA.
(5)https://ror.org/00y4zzh67George Washington University Miliken School of 
Public Health, Department of Epidemiology, Washington DC, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This paper describes challenges and opportunities for data 
collection during a disaster, focusing on how young adults in the United States 
navigated the initial period of the COVID-19 pandemic--a disaster which 
introduced significant uncertainty and precarity both for individuals and the 
research process.
METHODS: This paper draws on lessons from a small exploratory study which used 
journaling techniques as a data collection tool.
RESULTS: Journaling addressed 3 key challenges to collecting data during a 
public health crisis: 1) accessing respondents when preparation time and 
resources are limited; 2) ensuring protection for both participants and 
researchers in a context when human interaction is severely constrained; and 3) 
needing both rapid response and flexibility in research design and data 
collection.
CONCLUSIONS: Journaling techniques are a feasible, efficient and effective tool 
that can be adapted and utilized in various disaster contexts, including other 
pandemics and extreme climate events.

DOI: 10.1017/dmp.2025.10066
PMID: 40665496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2025 Dec;21(1):2533639. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2025.2533639. Epub 2025 Jul 15.

From institutional trust to digital literacy: Socioeconomic and political 
determinants of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy among Czech adults based on a 
national panel survey.

Riad A(1)(2), Bahavan B(1), Koščik M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, 
Czech Republic.
(2)Masaryk Centre for Global Health (MCGH), Department of Public Health, Faculty 
of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.

Vaccine hesitancy remains a significant public health challenge, particularly 
during pandemics when high immunization rates are crucial. While individual 
psychological antecedents of vaccine hesitancy have been extensively studied, 
limited empirical evidence exists on how contextual determinants, such as 
socioeconomic status, political trust, and digital literacy, collectively shape 
vaccine-related behaviors, particularly in Central European populations. This 
study explores the key determinants of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy among Czech 
adults. A cross-sectional study was conducted using data from the 48th wave of 
the Czech national panel survey Život během pandemie [Life During Pandemic], 
carried out in March 2023. The data were obtained via an online questionnaire 
administered to a nationally representative sample of Czech adults (n = 1,708). 
Sociodemographic, socioeconomic, and anamnestic variables were examined 
alongside political attitudes. Psychological antecedents of vaccination were 
assessed using the 5C model (confidence, complacency, constraints, risk 
calculation, and collective responsibility), and digital vaccine literacy was 
measured using seven items covering trust in official sources, trust in social 
media, and the ability to evaluate and apply vaccine information. Statistical 
analyses included bivariate tests and multivariable regression models to 
identify vaccine uptake and intent determinants. Higher trust in constitutional 
institutions, including the president (OR = 1.55; 95/ CI: 1.38-1.74), government 
(1.60; 1.38-1.85), Chamber of Deputies (1.73; 1.48-2.02), and Senate (1.47; 
1.29-1.69), was significantly associated with higher vaccine uptake. Similarly, 
positive attitudes toward the integration of Ukrainian refugees into Czech 
society - across domains such as work (1.63; 1.39-1.90), housing (1.59; 
1.36-1.86), school (1.64; 1.41-1.92), language (1.57; 1.34-1.84), and culture 
(1.74; 1.50-2.03) - were positively associated with uptake. Greater confidence 
in vaccine safety and effectiveness was also a significant predictor (1.51; 
1.44-1.58). In contrast, lower education (0.64; 0.56-0.73), lower income (0.91; 
0.86-0.95), female sex (0.60; 0.47-0.76), and higher complacency (0.76; 
0.73-0.80) were associated with reduced uptake. Respondents with better digital 
vaccine literacy, particularly those more adept at identifying misinformation, 
showed significantly greater vaccine confidence (mean score: 3.62 vs. 3.30, 
p < .001). Beyond psychological antecedents, institutional trust, political 
orientation, and digital vaccine literacy significantly shape COVID-19 
vaccination behaviors. These findings underscore the importance of targeted 
interventions that address political and digital influences on vaccine 
hesitancy, and they highlight the need for future research to examine the causal 
pathways and longitudinal dynamics underlying these associations, particularly 
within Central and Eastern European contexts.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2025.2533639
PMID: 40665470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. BMC Res Notes. 2025 Jul 15;18(1):292. doi: 10.1186/s13104-025-07377-y.

Preventive behaviors related to COVID-19 based on social cognitive integrative 
model constructs among medical students: A cross-sectional study.

Mirzaie A(1), Gholamnia-Shirvani Z(2), Jahani MA(3), Nikbakht HA(3), Pakpour 
A(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, 
Iran.
(2)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Health Research Institute, 
Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran. Z.gholamnia@yahoo.com.
(3)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Health Research Institute, 
Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(4)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Research Institute for 
Prevention Non-communicable Diseases, Qazvin University of Medical Sciences, 
Qazvin, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: The COVID-19 outbreak in Iran has prompted the investigation of 
preventive behaviors in vulnerable and key groups. This descriptive and 
analytical cross-sectional study determined preventive behaviors for COVID-19 
among medical students using an integrated social cognition model and identified 
influencing factors.
RESULTS: The study of 650 medical students with a mean age of 24.37 ± 3.78 years 
showed that the total scores of the integrated social cognition model and 
COVID-19 prevention behaviors were at the medium level, 85.44 ± 8.70 out of 155 
and 10.78 ± 1.99 out of 20 scores, respectively. Univariate and multivariate 
regression analysis showed that the variables of marital status (β=-1.95 
[CI95%=-3.36 to -0.53], P = 0.007), maternal literacy (β = 2.59 [CI95%=0.96 to 
4.21], P = 0.002), paternal literacy (β = 2.47 [CI95%=0.89 to 4.04], P = 0.002), 
place of residence (β = 3.46 [CI95%=2.14 to 4.79], P = < 0.001), being a native 
(β = 1.70 [CI95%=0.21 to 3.19], P = 0.025), and educational level (β=-3.16 
[CI95%=-1.64 to -4.68], P = < 0.001) are strong independent predictors of 
COVID-19 preventive behaviors. Single students, parents with university 
education, were nondormitory and native, and at the basic science level earned 
higher scores for the model constructs (p < 0.05). These results can be used to 
design an educational intervention for COVID-19 preventive behaviors in medical 
students.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-025-07377-y
PMID: 40665427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The code of ethics (IR.MUBABOL.HRI.REC.1400.144) was got from the 
Ethics Committee of Babol University of Medical Sciences, and informed consent 
was got from the participants. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


60. BMC Res Notes. 2025 Jul 15;18(1):291. doi: 10.1186/s13104-025-07374-1.

Burden level and quality of life of caregivers of hemodialysis patient's in 
central India: a mixed-method cross-sectional study.

Ramasamy S(1)(2), Rathore V(3), Agrawal V(4), Galhotra A(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health (at time of study), All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India.
(2)Vedanta Medical Research Foundation (BALCO Medical Centre), Raipur, 
Chhattisgarh, India.
(3)Department of Nephrology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Raipur, 
Chhattisgarh, India.
(4)Department of Nephrology, Dau Kalyan Singh Post Graduate Institute and 
Research center, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India.
(5)Department of Community & Family Medicine, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India. abhiruchigalhotra@aiimsraipur.edu.in.

PURPOSE: Caregivers of hemodialysis patients are at high risk of developing 
reduced quality of life (QoL) and increased caregiver burden.
AIM: This study aims to explore the level of caregiver burden and quality of 
life in caregivers of hemodialysis patients in central India.
METHODS: This cross-sectional mixed-method study was undertaken among caregivers 
of stable hemodialysis patients attending a tertiary care hospital in central 
India. The Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI) and WHOQoL BREF questionnaire measured 
caregiver burden and QoL. The qualitative data was gathered through in-depth 
interviews using a semi-structured open-ended questionnaire that delved into 
their personal experiences with caregiving. The transcripts of these interviews 
were analysed using applied thematic analysis, allowing for the identification 
and exploration of recurring themes and patterns within the data.
RESULTS: A total of 105 caregivers took part in this study, with a mean age of 
40.04 ± 12.96 years. 56 (53.3%) caregivers were female. Most (48.6%, n = 51) 
were spouses/partners. Ten caregivers (9.5%) had to change their occupations due 
to caregiving responsibilities. 14 (23.33%) had comorbidities (diabetes, 
hypertension, asthma, and arthritis) themselves. The mean caregiver burden level 
(ZBI) was 18.55 ± 7.58. Most (59.0%) experienced mild to moderate burden, while 
28.6% reported a high burden. The WHOQoL BREF mean score of various domains of 
physical health, psychological, social relationship and environmental was 
35.70 ± 12.14, 44.20 ± 13.28, 44.28 ± 15.10 and 40.07 ± 13.36 respectively. The 
thematic analysis revealed, difficulty in continuing education and employment, 
changing jobs, the need to travel long distances to reach dialysis facilities 
and hardship due to COVID-19 pandemic as recurring challenges among caregivers.
CONCLUSION: Caregivers of Hemodialysis patients had significant caregiver burden 
and poor QoL. Regular assessment and special attention are needed for these 
caregivers.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-025-07374-1
PMID: 40665407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Institutional Ethical Committee with 
IEC Proposal No: AIIMSRPR/IEC/2021/1041 from the All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India. All participants signed an informed 
written consent before participation and informed consent was obtained from 
parents and/or legal guardians of minor/illiterate study participants. The study 
was conducted under the principles of the Helsinki Declaration. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.61. Genome Biol. 2025 Jul 15;26(1):205. doi: 10.1186/s13059-025-03669-5.

Enrichable cross-linkers for mapping direct protein interactions.

Wu T(#)(1)(2)(3), Zhou HX(#)(2)(3), Tian J(#)(4)(5), Zhou R(#)(6)(7), Huangfu 
S(8), Jin BK(2)(3), Sablina A(9), Zhou F(1)(10), Chen H(11), Tang S(12)(13), 
Zhang L(14)(15)(16), Yang B(17)(18).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Novel Targets and Drug Study for Neural Repair of Zhejiang 
Province, School of Medicine, Hangzhou City University, Hangzhou, 310015, 
Zhejiang, China.
(2)Life Sciences Institute, Department of Medical Oncology, The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, 310058, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Cancer Center, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, Zhejiang, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Institute of Drug Discovery, 
Guangzhou, Institutes of Biomedicine and Health, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Guangzhou, 510530, China.
(5)China-New Zealand Belt and Road Joint Laboratory On Biomedicine and Health, 
Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine and Health, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Guangzhou, 510530, China.
(6)The State Key Laboratory of Animal Biotech Breeding, Institute of Animal 
Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100193, China.
(7)Liaocheng University, Liaocheng, 252059, Shandong, China.
(8)Shanghai Institute for Advanced Immunochemical Studies, ShanghaiTech 
University, Shanghai, 201210, China.
(9)VIB-KU Leuven Center for Cancer Biology, VIB, 3000, Louvain, Belgium.
(10)Institute of Biology and Medical Science, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
215123, Jiangsu, China.
(11)Shanghai Institute for Advanced Immunochemical Studies, ShanghaiTech 
University, Shanghai, 201210, China. chenhl@shanghaitech.edu.cn.
(12)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Institute of Drug Discovery, 
Guangzhou, Institutes of Biomedicine and Health, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Guangzhou, 510530, China. tang_shibing@gibh.ac.cn.
(13)China-New Zealand Belt and Road Joint Laboratory On Biomedicine and Health, 
Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine and Health, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Guangzhou, 510530, China. tang_shibing@gibh.ac.cn.
(14)Key Laboratory of Novel Targets and Drug Study for Neural Repair of Zhejiang 
Province, School of Medicine, Hangzhou City University, Hangzhou, 310015, 
Zhejiang, China. l_zhang@zju.edu.cn.
(15)Life Sciences Institute, Department of Medical Oncology, The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, 310058, Zhejiang, China. l_zhang@zju.edu.cn.
(16)Cancer Center, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, Zhejiang, China. 
l_zhang@zju.edu.cn.
(17)Life Sciences Institute, Department of Medical Oncology, The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, 310058, Zhejiang, China. bingyang@zju.edu.cn.
(18)Cancer Center, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, Zhejiang, China. 
bingyang@zju.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: It is crucial to investigate protein functions in specific 
subcellular environments. Cross-linking mass spectrometry is a powerful tool to 
map the direct interactome of proteins by identifying inter-protein cross-links. 
However, it is challenging to identify inter-protein cross-linked peptides due 
to their low abundance.
RESULTS: We chemically synthesize the cross-linkers ePDES1 and ePDES2 with an 
alkyne group and a compound with azide linked to a phosphate group to enrich for 
cross-linked peptides.
CONCLUSION: Based on the high-quality cross-linking spectra of ePDES1 and 
ePDES2, our methods achieve the identification of hundreds of directly 
interacting proteins or substrates of thioredoxins in the nucleus and 
mitochondria.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13059-025-03669-5
PMID: 40665372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable for this study. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


62. BMC Med Educ. 2025 Jul 15;25(1):1061. doi: 10.1186/s12909-025-07386-2.

Remote online teaching beyond COVID-19 pandemic: a qualitative study across 
Physiotherapy programs in Italy.

Di Bari M(1)(2), Deodato M(3), Paci M(4)(5), Gatti R(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, 
Largo Brambilla, 3, Florence, 50134, Italy. mauro.dibari@unifi.it.
(2)Unit of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, Azienda 
Ospedaliero-Universitaria Careggi, Largo Brambilla, 3, Florence, 50134, Italy. 
mauro.dibari@unifi.it.
(3)Department of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, University of Trieste, 
Trieste, Italy.
(4)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, 
Largo Brambilla, 3, Florence, 50134, Italy.
(5)Department of Allied Health Professions, Azienda USL Toscana Centro, 
Florence, Italy.
(6)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center - IRCCS, and Department of Biomedical 
Sciences, Humanitas University, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: With the lockdown imposed by the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) 
pandemic, remote online teaching (ROT) became pivotal in the rapid 
reorganization imposed on the healthcare professions' educational programs. 
Physiotherapy programs were particularly affected, as they are characterized by 
hard and soft skills that are hardly learned with ROT. The purpose of the 
present study was to investigate the experiences and opinions on ROT by 
faculties involved in the education and training of Physiotherapy students 
during the pandemic, and on its possible application thereafter.
METHODS: Following accreditated checklists for qualitative research, 
semi-structured interviews were conducted by members of the National Directorate 
of the Physiotherapy programs in Italy. Academic directors (AD) and clinical 
training coordinators (CTC) of Italian Physiotherapy programs were randomly 
selected and interviewed, to collect their experiences and opinions on the use 
of ROT before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic. Iterative rounds of 
readings and discussions were conducted to analyze the interviews.
RESULTS: A total of 22 participants were interviewed, reaching a satisfactory 
level of saturation. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, ROT was used sporadically in 
academic activities; during the pandemic, participants familiarized themselves 
rapidly with this new approach, which was generally abandoned thereafter. After 
initial difficulties, most participants recognized the importance of ROT in 
preserving education during the lockdown. A negative impact on Physiotherapy 
students was occasionally reported, especially during their final exam and 
thesis dissertation. Despite the limitations of ROT in Physiotherapy education, 
participants recognized its advantages in supporting administrative tasks, 
sharing lectures, and creating international programs. Its potential for 
pedagogical innovation and the opportunity for investments in Internet-based 
didactic approaches were also underlined.
CONCLUSIONS: ROT was perceived as an important tool to preserve Physiotherapy 
programs during the COVID-19 pandemic. Although it was in general discontinued 
after the pandemic, many participants believed that it might contribute to 
establishing a "new normal" didactic paradigm in Physiotherapy education.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12909-025-07386-2
PMID: 40665301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study adheres to the Declaration of Helsinki. The study did not 
require Ethics Committee review, according to the “Ethics and data protection” 
regulations of the European advisory body and European Commission [29, 30]. 
Informed consent for registration and its use was obtained from each participant 
at the start of registration. Consent for publication: N.A. Competing interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests.


63. BMC Nurs. 2025 Jul 15;24(1):926. doi: 10.1186/s12912-025-03591-y.

Being a professional nurse until retirement - a qualitative interview study in 
Germany.

Schmedding L(1)(2), Forbrig TA(1), Gräske J(3).

Author information:
(1)Alice Salomon University of Applied Sciences, Alice Salomon Platz 5, 12628, 
Berlin, Germany.
(2)University Hospital Münster, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, 48149, Münster, 
Germany.
(3)Alice Salomon University of Applied Sciences, Alice Salomon Platz 5, 12628, 
Berlin, Germany. graeske@ash-berlin.eu.

BACKGROUND: Nurses are crucial to the global healthcare system, yet there is a 
growing shortage, exacerbated by demographic shifts and the coronavirus disease 
2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. The International Council of Nurses projects a deficit 
of 13 million nurses worldwide in the near future, contributing to missed 
nursing care and jeopardizing patient safety. Although extensive research has 
explored reasons why nurses leave the profession, far less is known about the 
factors that support their long-term commitment and retention until retirement. 
Hence, study aimed to identify the factors contributing to long-term retention 
of nurses in the profession, particularly those who stay until retirement.
METHODS: This qualitative study used semi-structured expert interviews with 22 
nurses in Germany who had at least 30 years of work experience, aiming to 
explore the personal, organizational, and societal factors that have supported 
their continued engagement in the profession. A purposive sampling method was 
used to select participants from various care settings, including acute, 
long-term, and outpatient care. Data were audio- and video-recorded, 
transcribed, and analyzed using content-structuring qualitative content 
analysis. Thematic categories were developed using a structured content analysis 
approach following Kuckartz, supported by both deductive and inductive coding 
via the MAXQDA software to identify key themes related to job retention.
RESULTS: The analysis revealed three overarching thematic categories: personal 
resources and motivations, organizational context and working conditions, and 
recognition and social value. The first category includes factors such as career 
choice motives, personal values, and generation-specific influences, all of 
which are significant contributors to long-term career commitment. The category 
organizational context and working conditions, including job satisfaction, 
work-time control, role clarity, and coping strategies, plays a pivotal role in 
retaining nurses. The third category encompassed the perceived value of nursing 
work in society, appreciation from patients and peers, and the professional 
identity fostered by meaningful recognition.
DISCUSSION: This study provides valuable insights into the factors that 
contribute to nurses' decisions to stay in the profession until retirement. 
While many studies emphasize the challenges and negative aspects of nursing that 
lead to attrition, this research highlights the positive factors that promote 
job retention. Addressing these factors, such as improving working conditions, 
ensuring adequate recognition, and supporting personal values and career 
motivations, could enhance nurse retention strategies. These findings underscore 
the importance of retention-focused strategies that enhance meaning in work, 
professional identity, and workplace culture-shifting the policy lens from 
attrition prevention to long-term engagement.
CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER: Not applicable.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12912-025-03591-y
PMID: 40665296

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Human ethics and consent to 
participate: This study involved no patients, medical interventions, or 
vulnerable persons. It was conducted solely with adult nursing professionals who 
voluntarily participated and provided informed consent. In accordance with the 
Information Sheet on Regulations Governing the Ethics Committee of Alice Salomon 
University of Applied Sciences Berlin [Satzung der Ethikkommission der Alice 
Salomon Hochschule Berlin] [58], ethical review is recommended for research 
involving potential risks to participants. As this qualitative, 
non-interventional study posed no such risks, formal ethics approval was not 
required. The study was conducted in alignment with national ethical standards 
and adhered to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and the ICN Code of 
Ethics. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


64. BMC Public Health. 2025 Jul 15;25(1):2459. doi: 10.1186/s12889-025-23648-6.

The optimal strategy for seasonal influenza vaccination to prevent 
high-intensity level of influenza epidemics in Zhejiang, China: an integrated 
transmission-dynamic and health-economic modeling analysis.

Chen M(#)(1), Yang M(#)(2), Yan R(#)(1), Liu Z(#)(1), Chen C(1), Qu R(1), Zhou 
W(1), Qi J(1), Cao K(1), Miao J(1), Wu X(1), Chen J(1), Feng Q(1), Zhang H(1), 
Dai A(1), Yang Y(1), Zhou J(1), Chen Q(3), Sun J(4), Yang S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Second Affiliated Hospital, Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, The Key Laboratory of 
Intelligent Preventive Medicine of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang University School 
of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Quzhou People's Hospital, No.100 of Minjiang Street, Quzhou, 32400, Zhejiang, 
China.
(3)Department of Public Health, Ningbo No.2 Hospital, Ningbo, China. 
Qin_Chen_PHP@yeah.net.
(4)Department of Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Zhejiang 
Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Hangzhou, China. 
jmsun@cdc.zj.cn.
(5)Department of Emergency Medicine, Second Affiliated Hospital, Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, The Key Laboratory of 
Intelligent Preventive Medicine of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang University School 
of Medicine, Hangzhou, China. yangshigui@zju.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Although Seasonal Influenza Vaccination (SIV) is a crucial 
preventive measure, achieving sufficient coverage to completely control 
influenza epidemics poses a significant challenge. This study aims to evaluate 
optimal strategies for SIV to prevent high-intensity level of influenza 
epidemics in Zhejiang Province, China. High-intensity outbreaks were defined as 
weekly incidence rates above 72.2 per 100,000.
METHODS: This study estimated the incidence of influenza from 2018 to 2023 in 
Zhejiang Province, China, using influenza weekly surveillance data. We developed 
a Susceptible-Vaccinated-Infectious-Recovered-Susceptible (SVIRS) model to 
simulate influenza transmission and used a decision tree to assess seven 
vaccination strategies aimed at preventing high-intensity influenza outbreaks. 
These strategies differed in vaccine coverage across the three age groups: 0-14 
years, 15-59 years, and 60 + years, despite having the same overall vaccination 
coverage.
RESULTS: Between 2018 and 2020, influenza incidence in Zhejiang Province 
followed typical seasonal patterns. However, during the COVID-19 pandemic, these 
patterns became irregular, culminating in a high-intensity influenza season in 
2022-2023. Model simulations indicated that increasing population-wide 
vaccination coverage to 36.17% could effectively prevent outbreaks from 
escalating to high-intensity levels. Among various allocation strategies for 
additional vaccines, targeting individuals aged 0-14 years and those aged 60 
years and older was found to be the most effective. This approach reduced the 
peak weekly incidence rate from the observed 182.83 to a predicted 42.28 per 
100,000, saved 23.45 CNY per capita, and yielded a health gain of 0.0102 
quality-adjusted life days (QALDs) per person.
CONCLUSION: Achieving a population-wide vaccination coverage beyond 36.17% is 
projected to prevent high-intensity level of influenza epidemics. Targeting the 
0-14 years and 60 + years age groups proves to be the most cost-effective 
strategy under constrained coverage conditions. These findings highlight the 
importance of age-prioritized vaccination policies to optimize resource 
allocation and mitigate the impact of influenza outbreaks, particularly in 
regions with limited healthcare capacity.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-025-23648-6
PMID: 40665279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study did not require ethics approval and consent to 
participate because it did not include individual-level information, ensuring no 
privacy concerns. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests.


65. BMC Public Health. 2025 Jul 15;25(1):2463. doi: 10.1186/s12889-025-23666-4.

Factors associated with anemia among pregnant and lactating women during the 
COVID-19 pandemic in the targeted municipalities of five selected provinces in 
Nepal: a cross-sectional study.

Niraula P(1)(2), Upadhyay A(3)(4), Karn SK(5), Karki R(6).

Author information:
(1)Baliyo Nepal Nutrition Initiative, Kathmandu, Nepal. pratik.rachit@gmail.com.
(2)Vertex Foods and Beverages Pvt. Ltd., Kathmandu, Nepal. 
pratik.rachit@gmail.com.
(3)Baliyo Nepal Nutrition Initiative, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(4)Vertex Foods and Beverages Pvt. Ltd., Kathmandu, Nepal.
(5)Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(6)National Food Research Centre, Nepal Agricultural Research Council, 
Kathmandu, Nepal.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-025-23666-4
PMID: 40665249

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All methods of this study were carried out under the Declaration of 
Helsinki’s ethical principle for medical research involving human subjects. The 
ethical clearance for this study was obtained from the Institutional Review 
Board (IRB) at the Nepal Health Research Council (Reference number: 217/2022). 
The formal permission was also obtained from the health department of respective 
municipalities. The written informed consent was obtained from all eligible 
participants before proceeding the data collection. In the case of minorities, 
who were under 16 years of age written informed consent was obtained from the 
parents or legal guardians. Also, the data enumerators elaborated the objectives 
of the study among participants and they were informed about voluntary 
participation, their right to refusal at any point, and the confidentiality of 
their identity. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests.


66. Drug Deliv Transl Res. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s13346-025-01916-7. Online 
ahead of print.

Nasal inhalation of antiviral microparticulate powders to target early infection 
of upper airways.

Banella S(#)(1)(2), Quarta E(#)(3), Brandolini M(4)(5), Grumiro L(4)(5), Sambri 
V(4)(5), Trevisi G(6), Bettini R(3), Colombo P(3)(7), Buttini F(3), Sonvico 
F(3), Caraua G(3), Rossi A(3), Colombo G(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara, Via 
Fossato di Mortara 19, 44121, Ferrara, Italy.
(2)Department of Diagnostics and Public Health, University of Verona, Piazzale 
L. Scuro 10, 37134, Verona, Italy.
(3)Food and Drug Department, University of Parma, Parco Area delle Scienze 27/A, 
43124, Parma, Italy.
(4)Unit of Microbiology, The Greater Romagna Area Hub Laboratory, Piazza della 
Liberazione 60, 47522, Cesena, Italy.
(5)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences (DIMEC), University of Bologna, 
Via G. Massarenti 9, 40138, Bologna, Italy.
(6)Institute of Materials for Electronics and Magnetism, IMEM-CNR, Parco Area 
delle Scienze 37/A, 43124, Parma, Italy.
(7)PlumeStars Srl, C/O Food and Drug Department, University of Parma, Parco Area 
delle Scienze 27/A, 43124, Parma, Italy.
(8)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara, Via 
Fossato di Mortara 19, 44121, Ferrara, Italy. clmgai@unife.it.
(#)Contributed equally

During the COVID-19 pandemic, several compounds among which chloroquine 
diphosphate (CqP), have been repurposed as anti-SARS-CoV-2 drugs. Critically, 
studies were most often performed by systemic drug administration, whereas the 
early viral infection of human body appeared in the upper respiratory tract. 
This research addressed the delivery strategy for depositing a powder aerosol of 
CqP onto the upper airways by a nasal inhalation act. By formulating the drug as 
nasal microparticulate aerodynamic powder, the loco-regional application of 
particle aerosol concentrates the drug primarily on the upper airway epithelia 
where the virus replicates. Nasal microparticulate powders of CqP, with and 
without excipients, were engineered by spray drying, obtaining particle size, 
density and morphology suitable for aerosolization and deposition onto the upper 
respiratory tract. The powders were loaded into a pre-metered device for oral 
inhalation of dry powders that was innovatively actuated by a nasal sharp sniff. 
The generated nasal airflow, measured in healthy volunteers, enabled powder dose 
emission from the inhaler. Chloroquine diphosphate microparticles, deposited on 
rabbit nasal mucosa ex vivo, led in less than 45 min to CqP concentrations 
within the epithelial cells between 30-70 mM. The in vitro CqP concentrations 
inhibiting SARS-CoV-2 replication, were in the µM range. The virus inhibition 
studied in Vero E6 cells was further enhanced when the cells were pre-treated 
with the drug powder before infection. In conclusion, the simple nasal sniff of 
an antiviral aerodynamic powder could be active against airborne viral early 
infection, limiting the exposition of the whole body to undesired drug effects.

© 2025. Controlled Release Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s13346-025-01916-7
PMID: 40665189

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: This study was 
performed in line with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Approval 
was granted by the Research Ethics Board of the University of Parma (June 11th, 
2024, protocol number 0145714). Informed consent: All procedures followed were 
in accordance with the ethical standards of the responsible committee on human 
experimentation (institutional and national) and with the Helsinki Declaration 
of 1975, as revised in 2000. Informed consent was obtained from all healthy 
volunteers for being included in the study. Competing interest: Emeritus 
Professor Paolo Colombo is the administrator of the innovative SME PlumeStars 
s.r.l., the Applicant of an Italian patent on “Novel Antiviral Compositions and 
Their Use in Therapy and in the Treatment of Viral Infections” (No. 
102021000002003, filed on 01/02/2021). Paolo Colombo, Eride Quarta, Gaia Colombo 
and Sabrina Banella are the inventors of that patent. Ruggero Bettini and 
Francesca Buttini, both professors of Pharmaceutical Technology at the Food and 
Drug Department of the University of Parma, are co-founders of PlumeStars 
start-up. The other authors have no relevant financial or non-financial 
interests to disclose.


67. Ann Intensive Care. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):98. doi: 10.1186/s13613-025-01512-5.

Hyperglycemia and insulin use in patients with COVID-19 and severe hypoxemia 
allocated to 12 mg vs. 6 mg of dexamethasone: a secondary analysis of the COVID 
STEROID 2 randomized trial.

Clausen CL(1)(2), Bryrup T(3), Hansen CL(3), Faurholt-Jepsen D(3)(4), Meddis 
A(5), Almdal TP(6)(7), Snorgaard O(8), Jørgensen HL(9), Helleberg M(3), Smitt 
M(10), Warmberg CA(11), Tjelle K(12), Ulrik CS(13), Andreasen AS(14), Bestle 
M(4)(15), Poulsen L(16), Marcussen KV(17), Wiese L(18), Munch MW(19), Perner 
A(4)(19), Krogh-Madsen R(20)(21), Benfield T(20)(22)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center of Clinical Research and Disruption of Infectious Diseases (CREDID), 
Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and Hvidovre, Kettegaard Alle 30, 2650, 
Hvidovre, Denmark. Clausen.clara@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager 
and Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark. Clausen.clara@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Copenhagen University Hospital - 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(5)Department of Public Health, Section of Biostatistics, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Department of Nephrology and Endocrinology, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)Department of Immunology and Microbiology, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen,, Denmark.
(8)Department of Endocrinology, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and 
Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark.
(9)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager 
and Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark.
(10)Department of Neuroanaesthesiology, Copenhagen University Hospital - 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(11)Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care, Copenhagen University 
Hospital - Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(12)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Copenhagen University Hospital 
- Amager and Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(13)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager 
and Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(14)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Copenhagen University Hospital 
- Herlev and Gentofte, Herlev, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(15)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Copenhagen University Hospital 
- North Zealand, Hillerod, Denmark.
(16)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Zealand University Hospital, 
Køge, Denmark.
(17)Department of Anaesthesia, Zealand University Hospital, Slagelse, Denmark.
(18)Department of Infectious Diseases, Zealand University Hospital, Roskilde, 
Denmark.
(19)Department of Intensive Care, Copenhagen University Hospital - 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(20)Center of Clinical Research and Disruption of Infectious Diseases (CREDID), 
Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and Hvidovre, Kettegaard Alle 30, 2650, 
Hvidovre, Denmark.
(21)Centre for Physical Activity Research, Copenhagen University Hospital - 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(22)Department of Infectious Diseases, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager 
and Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: While dexamethasone has been shown to improve survival in COVID-19, 
its dose-response relationship with plasma glucose (PG) levels and insulin 
requirements is poorly understood. This study investigated the impact of 12 mg 
(higher dose) versus 6 mg (standard dose) of dexamethasone on hyper- or 
hypoglycemic events and the use of insulin.
METHODS: A secondary analysis of a subpopulation of the COVID STEROID 2 trial. 
Glycemic outcomes were assessed by time-to-event analysis of a hyperglycemic 
(two PG measurements ≥ 11.1 mmol/L), severe hyperglycemic (PG > 20 mmol/L), 
hypoglycemic (< 3.8 mmol/L) event or use of insulin, adjusted for age, diabetes 
status, hospital site, and mechanical ventilation. PG levels were compared 
before and after treatment allocation with linear mixed models to estimate 
changes in average PG levels over time.
RESULTS: Of 321 participants, 170 were allocated to the higher dose and 151 to 
the standard dose of dexamethasone. Time to a hyperglycemic event did not differ 
between groups, whereas severe hyperglycemic events were more frequent in the 
higher dose group (36%) than in the standard dose group (31%) with an adjusted 
subdistributional hazard ratio of 1.76 (95% CI [1.22-2.54], p = 0.003). Insulin 
use and hypoglycemic events did not differ between groups. The higher vs. 
standard dose group had an average PG increase of 0.5 mmol/L (95% CI [- 0.2 to 
1.4], p = 0.149).
CONCLUSION: Higher vs. standard doses of dexamethasone were associated with a 
higher incidence of severe hyperglycemia in patients with COVID-19 and severe 
hypoxemia, but the average increase in PG was similar between groups.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13613-025-01512-5
PMID: 40665171

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The COVID STEROID 2 trial was approved by the Scientific Ethics 
Committee of the Capital Region of Denmark (H-20051056) and registered at 
ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04509973) and ctri.nic.in (CTRI/2020/10/028731) on August 
11th, 2020. The secondary analysis was approved according to Danish Healthcare 
Law § 46, Sect. 2 by the Capital Region (R-24013197). Consent for publication: 
Not applicable. Competing interests: T.B. reports grants from Novo Nordisk 
Foundation, Lundbeck Foundation, Simonsen Foundation, GSK, and Pfizer; personal 
fees from GSK, Pfizer, Bavarian Nordic, Gilead, MSD, Janssen, Moderna and Astra 
Zeneca; outside the submitted work. TPA holds stocks in Novo Nordisk A/S; 
outside the submitted work. No other disclosures were reported.


68. J Gen Intern Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s11606-025-09715-z. Online ahead
of  print.

Disparities in Monoclonal Antibody (mAb) Treatment Usage in the Military Health 
System During the COVID-19 Pandemic.

Liang E(1), Chuang K(1), Madsen C(2)(3), Chung KK(4), Coles CL(1)(5), Koehlmoos 
TP(5).

Author information:
(1)The Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine, 
Inc., Bethesda, MD, USA.
(2)The Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine, 
Inc., Bethesda, MD, USA. cathaleen.madsen.ctr@usuhs.edu.
(3)Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD, USA. 
cathaleen.madsen.ctr@usuhs.edu.
(4)SeaStar Medical, Denver, CO, USA.
(5)Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND: Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) were identified in 2020 as potential 
curative agents for COVID-19, particularly in high-risk populations. However, 
studies report differences in receipt of mAbs by race, sex, and insurance 
status. We hypothesized that Military Health System (MHS) beneficiaries, who are 
universally insured, would have approximately equal uptake of mAbs across 
sociodemographic categories.
METHODS: Beneficiaries (active-duty service members, dependents, retirees) aged 
12-64, receiving a COVID-19 diagnosis and outpatient treatment between November 
9, 2020, and January 24, 2022, were identified from claims data in the MHS Data 
Repository (MDR). Analyses comprised descriptive statistics on demographics and 
frequency of COVID-19 mAb treatment for all eligible beneficiaries and by sex, 
race, sponsor rank, and risk status. Unadjusted and adjusted odds ratios (OR) 
for likelihood of receiving mAb treatment were obtained using multivariable 
logistic regression models for all beneficiaries as well as only those 
classified as "high risk."
RESULTS: Of 221,036 COVID-19 patients receiving outpatient care, 9907 (4.5%) 
received mAb treatment. Beneficiaries who received treatment were predominately 
White (53%), female (57%), ages 45-64 (64%), dependents (56%), associated with 
enlisted rank (77%), and not at high risk of developing severe COVID-19 and/or 
hospitalization (86%). Greater uptake of mAbs by American Indian/Alaska Native 
and lesser uptake by Black and Asian compared to White patients, and by female 
compared to male patients, concurs with published results in the greater US 
population.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite universal insurance, significant differences were observed 
in receipt of mAbs by race, rank (proxy for socioeconomic status), and sex. 
These results suggest that factors beyond insurance play roles in determining 
who receives mAbs. The provision of mAbs to non-high-risk patients also suggests 
a role for either patient- or provider-induced demand. Further research is 
needed to determine the scope of factors affecting mAb uptake in the MHS, and in 
other large health systems.

© 2025. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-025-09715-z
PMID: 40665082

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest. Human Ethics and Consent to Participate 
Declarations: NA. Disclaimer: The contents of this publication are the sole 
responsibility of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views, 
assertions, opinions, or policies of the Uniformed Services University of the 
Health Sciences (USUHS); the Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of 
Military Medicine, Inc. (HJF); the Department of Defense (DoD); the Departments 
of the Army, Navy, or Air Force; or SeaStar Medical. Mention of trade names, 
commercial products, or organizations does not imply endorsement by the US 
Government.


69. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25617. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-11389-w.

Emotional state in patients after COVID-19 in relation to comprehensive 
rehabilitation, Brain-Derived neurotrophic factor, Irisin levels, and selected 
clinical factors.

Mińko A(1), Turoń-Skrzypińska A(2), Rył A(2), Rotter I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Rehabilitation and Clinical Physiotherapy, Pomeranian 
Medical University, Szczecin, 71-210, Poland. alicja.minko287@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Medical Rehabilitation and Clinical Physiotherapy, Pomeranian 
Medical University, Szczecin, 71-210, Poland.

The outbreak of the COVID-19 epidemic is a breach of health protection 
worldwide. Complications in people who limit the risk of COVID-19 can be 
associated with physical and mental health. Identification of states associated 
with anxiety and depression and threats that may occur in patients after 
COVID-19 is a very important aspect that occurs on the selection of therapeutic 
methods, and thus recovery occurs. The aim of the study was to assess the 
penalty in the treatment of anxiety symptoms and depressiveness in a patient 
after COVID-19. The study includes the effects resulting from brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor, irisin and other problems related to problems and 
depressive symptoms in patients after COVID-19. included in the study 
participation in the rehabilitation education program in stationary conditions. 
The Generalized Anxiety Disorder Questionnaire was used to solve anxiety 
problems. The Beck Depression Inventory was used to assess the effects of 
depression. To assess the update of the irisin (ng/mL) and brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (ng/mL) configuration on the day of treatment initiation 
from each patient's blood was collected from a female venous sample. After 
rehabilitation, patients scored lower in both depression and anxiety 
assessments. Women had higher scores in the assessment of anxiety disorders and 
depression. The longer the period from the end of COVID-19 treatment to the 
start of rehabilitation, the higher the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 
Questionnaire and The Beck Depression Inventory scores. The higher the 
Generalized Anxiety Disorder Questionnaire and The Beck Depression Inventory 
scores, the lower the handgrip strength values. With increasing irisin 
concentration, The Beck Depression Inventory values also increased. 
Comprehensive rehabilitation may be associated with a reduction in the severity 
of anxiety and depressive symptoms in patients after COVID-19. Earlier 
initiation of rehabilitation may be associated with better emotional well-being 
in patients after COVID-19. The severity of anxiety and depressive symptoms may 
be associated with gender, age, and hospitalization during COVID-19 treatment. 
Increased irisin levels in patients after COVID-19 may be associated with 
inflammatory and metabolic complications after infection. However, 
interpretation of these relationships requires further studies taking into 
account additional biological variables and prospective analyses.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-11389-w
PMID: 40665009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Institutional review board statement: The study 
was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and approved by the 
Bioethics Committee of the Pomeranian Medical University (protocol code 
KB-0012/15/2021 of 28 June 2023). Informed consent Statement: Informed consent 
was obtained from all subjects involved in the study.


70. Commun Med (Lond). 2025 Jul 15;5(1):294. doi: 10.1038/s43856-025-00998-1.

A diffusion model for universal medical image enhancement.

Fei B(#)(1), Li Y(#)(1), Yang W(2), Gao H(3), Xu J(1), Ma L(1), Yang Y(4), Zhou 
P(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200438, China.
(2)College of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200438, China. wdyang@fudan.edu.cn.
(3)Institute of Digestive Disease, School of Medicine, Tongji University, 
Shanghai, 200065, China. hengjun_gao@tongji.edu.cn.
(4)National Engineering Center for Biochip, Shanghai, 201203, China.
(5)Endoscopy Center of Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The development of medical imaging techniques has made a significant 
contribution to clinical decision-making. However, the existence of suboptimal 
imaging quality, as indicated by irregular illumination or imbalanced intensity, 
presents significant obstacles in automating disease screening, analysis, and 
diagnosis. Existing approaches for natural image enhancement are mostly trained 
with numerous paired images, presenting challenges in data collection and 
training costs, all while lacking the ability to generalize effectively.
METHODS: Here, we introduce a pioneering training-free Diffusion Model for 
Universal Medical Image Enhancement, named UniMIE. UniMIE demonstrates its 
unsupervised enhancement capabilities across various medical image modalities 
without the need for any fine-tuning. It accomplishes this by relying solely on 
a single pre-trained model from ImageNet.
RESULTS: We conduct a comprehensive evaluation on 13 imaging modalities and over 
15 medical types, demonstrating better qualities, robustness, and accuracy than 
other modality-specific and data-inefficient models. By delivering high-quality 
enhancement and corresponding accuracy downstream tasks across a wide range of 
tasks, UniMIE exhibits considerable potential to accelerate the advancement of 
diagnostic tools and customized treatment plans.
CONCLUSIONS: UniMIE represents a transformative approach to medical image 
enhancement, offering a versatile and robust solution that adapts to diverse 
imaging conditions. By improving image quality and facilitating better 
downstream analyses, UniMIE has the potential to revolutionize clinical 
workflows and enhance diagnostic accuracy across a wide range of medical 
applications.

Plain Language Summary: Medical images, such as microscopy and X-rays, are 
important tools for diagnosing and treating illnesses. However, these images 
often have poor quality due to issues that include low contrast or noise, making 
it harder for doctors to use them effectively. To address this issue, we 
developed a method called UniMIE, which improves the quality of medical images 
without requiring computational training or inclusion of additional medical 
data. UniMIE enhances image clarity and brightness, enabling doctors to more 
easily analyze and diagnose conditions. Experimental results demonstrate that 
UniMIE outperforms existing enhancement methods across diverse applications, 
including COVID-19 detection, brain imaging and cardiac imaging. We hope that 
this approach will contribute to improved diagnostic accuracy and, ultimately, 
better patient outcomes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s43856-025-00998-1
PMID: 40664877

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


71. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25537. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10895-1.

Dysregulated type I/III interferon system in circulation from patients with 
anti-MDA5-positive dermatomyositis.

Yoshida A(1), Gono T(1)(2), Okazaki Y(1), Shimizu M(3), Igarashi Y(4), Kitahara 
Y(5), Fujisawa T(5), Suda T(5), Yokobori S(4), Morita R(3), Kuwana M(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Allergy and Rheumatology, Nippon Medical School Graduate School 
of Medicine, 1-1-5, Sendagi, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan.
(2)Scleroderma/Myositis Center of Excellence, Nippon Medical School Hospital, 
Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Nippon Medical School Graduate 
School of Medicine, Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan.
(4)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, Nippon Medical School 
Graduate School of Medicine, Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan.
(5)Second Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Hamamatsu University School 
of Medicine, Hamamatsu, 431-3192, Japan.
(6)Department of Allergy and Rheumatology, Nippon Medical School Graduate School 
of Medicine, 1-1-5, Sendagi, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan. 
kuwanam@nms.ac.jp.
(7)Scleroderma/Myositis Center of Excellence, Nippon Medical School Hospital, 
Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan. kuwanam@nms.ac.jp.

Anti-melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5)-positive dermatomyositis 
(DM) is often complicated by rapidly progressive interstitial lung disease 
(RP-ILD), leading to early mortality. Previous studies on the pathogenesis of 
anti-MDA5-positive DM highlighted type I interferons (IFNs), while recent 
investigations reported the significance of a type III IFN, IFN-λ3. We 
investigated a range of cytokines, including type I/II/III IFNs, in serum 
samples from anti-MDA5-positive DM patients collected at diagnosis before 
treatment introduction. Elevations of IFN-β and λ3 were identified as the 
hallmark of anti-MDA5-positive DM, in comparison with other myositis subtypes, 
systemic lupus erythematosus, and COVID-19 pneumonia. The elevation of IFN-λ3 
was associated with decreased CD56dimCD16pos NK cells in circulation. The unique 
cytokine profile with type I/III IFN upregulation in anti-MDA5-positive DM was 
replicated in independent validation cohorts. A cluster analysis using serum 
type I/III IFN levels identified three subgroups in anti-MDA5-positive DM: mild 
elevations of IFN-α/β and λ3; a marked increase in IFN-λ3 alone; and pronounced 
elevations of IFN-α/β with mild to moderate increase in IFN-λ3. Patients in the 
cluster with a marked elevation of IFN-λ3 alone tended to present with RP-ILD 
and decreased survival. The combination of serum type I/III IFN levels could 
serve as a prognostic biomarker in anti-MDA5-positive DM.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10895-1
PMID: 40664875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: T.G. has 
received speaking fees from Asahi Kasei Pharma, Astellas, Boehringer-Ingelheim, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Chugai, Eli Lily, Ono Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer, and 
Tanabe-Mitsubishi; M.K. has received royalties from MBL; speaking honoraria from 
Boehringer-Ingelheim; consulting honoraria from Argenx, AstraZeneca, 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, GSK, and Novartis; and research grants from 
Boehringer-Ingelheim and MBL. The other authors have no conflicts of interest.


72. NPJ Digit Med. 2025 Jul 15;8(1):442. doi: 10.1038/s41746-025-01781-1.

COLA-GLM: collaborative one-shot and lossless algorithms of generalized linear 
models for decentralized observational healthcare data.

Wu Q(1)(2)(3), Reps JM(4)(5)(6), Li L(3)(7), Zhang B(3)(7), Lu Y(3)(7), Tong 
J(2)(3)(8), Zhang D(2)(3), Lumley T(9), Brand MT(10), Van Zandt M(4)(10), 
Falconer T(11), He X(12)(13), Huang Y(12)(13), Li H(14), Yan C(15), Tang G(16), 
Williams AE(17)(18), Wang F(14), Bian J(12)(13), Malin B(15)(19)(20), Hripcsak 
G(11), Schuemie MJ(4)(5)(21), Lu Y(22), Drew S(16), Zhou J(23), Asch DA(24)(25), 
Chen Y(26)(27)(28)(29)(30).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Health Data Science, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, University of 
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)The Center for Health AI and Synthesis of Evidence (CHASE), University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Janssen Research & Development, Titusville, NJ, USA.
(6)Department of Medical Informatics, Erasmus University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)The Graduate Group in Applied Mathematics and Computational Science, School 
of Arts and Sciences, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(8)Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(9)Department of Statistics, Faculty of Science, University of Auckland, 
Auckland, New Zealand.
(10)Real World Solutions, IQVIA, Durham, NC, USA.
(11)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(12)Department of Biostatistics and Health Data Science, Indiana University, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(13)Center for Biomedical Informatics, Regenstrief Institute, Indianapolis, IN, 
USA.
(14)Department of Population Health Sciences, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, 
NY, USA.
(15)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, TN, USA.
(16)Department of Electrical and Software Engineering, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, AB, Canada.
(17)Clinical and Translational Science Institute, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(18)Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical 
Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(19)Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, TN, USA.
(20)Department of Computer Science, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.
(21)Department of Biostatistics, University of California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(22)Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, 
Silver Spring, MD, USA.
(23)School of Information, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(24)Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(25)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of Pennsylvania Perelman 
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(26)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, University of 
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
ychen123@upenn.edu.
(27)The Center for Health AI and Synthesis of Evidence (CHASE), University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. ychen123@upenn.edu.
(28)Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA. ychen123@upenn.edu.
(29)Penn Medicine Center for Evidence-based Practice (CEP), Philadelphia, PA, 
USA. ychen123@upenn.edu.
(30)Penn Institute for Biomedical Informatics (IBI), Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
ychen123@upenn.edu.

Clinical insights from real-world data often require aggregating information 
from institutions to ensure sufficient sample sizes and generalizability. 
However, patient privacy concerns only limit the sharing of patient-level data, 
and traditional federated learning algorithms, relying on extensive 
back-and-forth communications, can be inefficient to implement. We introduce the 
Collaborative One-shot Lossless Algorithm for Generalized Linear Models 
(COLA-GLM), a novel federated learning algorithm that supports diverse outcome 
types via generalized linear models and achieves results identical to a pooled 
patient-level data analysis (lossless) with only a single round of aggregated 
data exchange (one-shot). To further protect aggregated institutional data, we 
developed a secure extension, secure-COLA-GLM, utilizing homomorphic encryption. 
We demonstrated the effectiveness and lossless property of COLA-GLM through 
applications to an international influenza cohort and a decentralized U.S. 
COVID-19 mortality study. COLA-GLM and secure-COLA-GLM offer a scalable, 
efficient solution for decentralized collaborative learning involving multiple 
data partners and diverse security requirements.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41746-025-01781-1
PMID: 40664765

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


73. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25608. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-06495-8.

COVID-19 susceptibility, severity, and vaccine effectiveness in patients with 
psoriasis: a nationwide cohort study in South Korea.

Cho YA(#)(1), Han H(#)(2), Won S(2)(3)(4), Lim JW(1), Sung JY(1), Kim CY(1), Yu 
DA(1)(5), Lee YW(1)(5), Choe YB(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Konkuk University School of Medicine, 120-1 
Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul, 05030, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Public Health Sciences, Seoul National University, 1 Gwanak-ro, 
Gwanak-gu, Seoul, 08826, Republic of Korea.
(3)Institute of Health and Environment, Seoul National University, 1 Gwanak-ro, 
Gwanak-gu, Seoul, 08826, Republic of Korea.
(4)RexSoft Inc, 542 Yeoksam-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 06187, Republic of Korea.
(5)Research Institute of Medical Science, Konkuk University School of Medicine, 
120-1 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul, 05030, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Dermatology, Konkuk University School of Medicine, 120-1 
Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul, 05030, Republic of Korea. cyb@kuh.ac.kr.
(7)Research Institute of Medical Science, Konkuk University School of Medicine, 
120-1 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul, 05030, Republic of Korea. cyb@kuh.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

Patients with psoriasis are vulnerable to infections due to dysregulated 
immunity, use of immunosuppressive drugs, and comorbid conditions. Despite 
ongoing concerns regarding coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vulnerability in 
patients with psoriasis, evidence remains limited. This nationwide, 
population-based, retrospective cohort study aimed to assess the risk and 
severity of COVID-19 and vaccine effectiveness in patients with psoriasis, 
including those receiving immunomodulatory therapy, using Korean National Health 
Insurance Service claims data from 2018 to 2021. The primary analysis included 
167,746 patients with psoriasis and 866,582 controls, revealing no significant 
associations between psoriasis and COVID-19 (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR]: 0.99, 
95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.95-1.04). Conversely, the secondary analysis of 
3,131 patients with psoriasis and 265,475 controls revealed significantly higher 
rates of severe COVID-19 in patients with psoriasis (aHR: 1.33, 95% CI: 
1.08-1.64). While some treatment subgroups - such as the cyclosporine and 
methotrexate subgroups - demonstrated higher incidences of COVID-19 than the 
reference (nonsystemic) subgroup, these differences were not statistically 
significant. Furthermore, vaccine interaction effects between the duration of 
immunity and psoriasis or each treatment were insignificant (all P > 0.05). 
Patients with psoriasis exhibited a higher risk of severe COVID-19; however, 
their COVID-19 susceptibility and vaccine effectiveness resembled those of the 
control group. Additionally, the use of immunomodulatory agents did not impact 
COVID-19 risk or vaccine effectiveness. These findings highlight the need for 
dermatologists to implement pre- and postinfection strategies tailored for 
patients with psoriasis.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-06495-8
PMID: 40664730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: This study was 
reviewed and approved by the Konkuk University Medical Center IRB; approval 
number: 36 #KUMC 2021-12-033. Written consent was waived since this study used 
de-identified data. Competing interests: Y.B.C. has received research grants 
from the the Konkuk University. The remaining authors have no conflict of 
interest to declare.


74. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25470. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-09904-0.

Development and validation of a RP-HPLC method for simultaneous determination of 
five COVID-19 antiviral drugs in pharmaceutical formulations.

Nassar MW(1), Serag A(2), Hasan MA(1), Kamel M(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Analytical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al- 
Azhar University, Nasr City, 11751, Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Pharmaceutical Analytical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al- 
Azhar University, Nasr City, 11751, Cairo, Egypt. Ahmedserag777@azhar.edu.eg.

A rapid, sensitive, and selective reversed-phase high-performance liquid 
chromatography (RP-HPLC) method was developed and validated for the simultaneous 
determination of five COVID-19 antiviral drugs: favipiravir, molnupiravir, 
nirmatrelvir, remdesivir, and ritonavir. The chromatographic separation was 
achieved on a Hypersil BDS C18 column (4.5 × 150 mm, 5 μm particle size) using 
an isocratic mobile phase consisting of water and methanol (30:70 v/v, pH 3.0 
adjusted with 0.1% ortho-phosphoric acid) at a flow rate of 1 mL/min with UV 
detection at 230 nm. The optimized method demonstrated good chromatographic 
resolution with retention times of 1.23, 1.79, 2.47, 2.86, and 4.34 min for 
favipiravir, molnupiravir, nirmatrelvir, remdesivir, and ritonavir, 
respectively. The method was validated according to ICH guidelines, showing 
linearity in the concentration range of 10-50 µg/mL with correlation 
coefficients (r²) ≥ 0.9997 for all analytes. The limits of detection were 
0.415-0.946 µg/mL, while the limits of quantification were 1.260-2.868 µg/mL. 
The method demonstrated high trueness (99.59-100.08%) and precision 
(RSD < 1.1%). The validated method was successfully applied to the determination 
of these drugs in their pharmaceutical formulations, with recovery values 
ranging from 99.98 to 100.7% and no significant interference from excipients. 
Comprehensive greenness and practicality evaluations using five assessment tools 
yielded favorable scores: AGREE (0.70), AGREEprep (0.59), MoGAPI (70%), BAGI 
(82.5), and CACI (79), indicating good environmental performance and excellent 
practical applicability for routine pharmaceutical quality control analysis. The 
multi-tool assessment confirmed the method's environmental friendliness through 
strategic solvent selection and minimal sample preparation requirements, while 
demonstrating superior practical implementation characteristics including 
cost-effectiveness and accessibility in standard analytical laboratories.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-09904-0
PMID: 40664729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval and consent to participate: Not 
applicable to this study. Consent for publication: Not applicable to this study.


75. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 16;15(1):25677. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10054-6.

Pleural mesothelioma incidence and use of systemic treatment decreased during 
the COVID-19 pandemic in The Netherlands.

Smesseim I(1)(2), Douma LH(3), Burgers JA(3), Damhuis RAM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. i.smesseim@nki.nl.
(2)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 
The Netherlands. i.smesseim@nki.nl.
(3)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Research and Development, Association of Comprehensive Cancer 
Centres, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Pleural mesothelioma (PM) is a lethal cancer often linked to asbestos exposure. 
The COVID-19 pandemic caused a global health crisis, raising concerns about its 
impact on cancer diagnoses and treatments. In response to the immense pressures 
on the healthcare system caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, many countries advised 
prioritizing essential healthcare services while postponing or suspending care 
considered non-emergent to prevent overburdening healthcare systems. This study 
assesses the impact of COVID-19 on the incidence, treatment, and overall 
survival of PM patients in the Netherlands between 2018 and 2022. Data were 
collected from the Netherlands Cancer Registry for 2,629 PM patients. Incidence, 
treatment patterns, and survival rates were analyzed using statistical methods, 
including Kruskal-Wallis and log-rank tests. PM incidence dropped 13.2% in 2020 
during the pandemic, with a 58.8% increase in patients receiving best supportive 
care and a decline in chemotherapy use (from 39.4% to 32.0%). In 2021, diagnoses 
rebounded (+ 15.2%), and immunotherapy use rose following its approval. However, 
no significant difference in overall survival was found between 2018 and 2022. 
COVID-19 led to a temporary decline in PM diagnoses and systemic treatments in 
2020, followed by recovery in 2021. Despite these changes, overall survival 
rates remained stable.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10054-6
PMID: 40664720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Ethical approval: This study was approved by the Ethics 
Review Committee of the Netherlands Cancer Registry, under approval number 
[K22.180_2].


76. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 15;16(1):6521. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61861-4.

Structural stabilization of the intrinsically disordered SARS-CoV-2 N by binding 
to RNA sequences engineered from the viral genome fragment.

Landeras-Bueno S(1)(2), Hariharan C(3), Avalos RD(3), Norris AS(#)(4), Snyder 
DT(#)(4), Hastie KM(3), Harkins S(3), Zandonatti M(3), Rajamanickam RR(3), 
Olmedillas E(3), Miller R(3), Shresta S(3), Wysocki VH(4), Saphire EO(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)La Jolla Institute for Immunology, La Jolla, CA, USA. 
sara.landeras@uchceu.es.
(2)Universidad Cardenal Herrera-CEU, CEU Universities, Valencia, Spain. 
sara.landeras@uchceu.es.
(3)La Jolla Institute for Immunology, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH, USA.
(5)La Jolla Institute for Immunology, La Jolla, CA, USA. erica@lji.org.
(6)Department of Medicine, University of California, La Jolla, CA, USA. 
erica@lji.org.
(#)Contributed equally

The nucleocapsid N is one of four structural proteins of the coronaviruses. Its 
essential role in genome encapsidation makes it a critical therapeutic target 
for COVID-19 and related diseases. However, the inherent disorder of full-length 
N hampers its structural analysis. Here, we describe a stepwise method using 
viral-derived RNAs to stabilize SARS-CoV-2 N for EM analysis. We identify pieces 
of RNA from the SARS-CoV-2 genome that promote the formation of structurally 
homogeneous N dimers, intermediates of assembly, and filamentous capsid-like 
structures. Building on these results, we engineer a symmetric RNA to stabilize 
N protein dimers, the building block of high-order assemblies, for EM studies. 
We combine domain-specific monoclonal antibodies against N with chemical 
cross-linking mass spectrometry to validate the spatial arrangement of the N 
domains within the dimer. Additionally, our cryo-EM analysis reveals novel 
antigenic sites on the N protein. Our findings provide insights into N protein´s 
architectural and antigenic principles, which can guide design of 
pan-coronavirus therapeutics.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61861-4
PMID: 40664703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


77. Lupus. 2025 Jul 15:9612033251360287. doi: 10.1177/09612033251360287. Online 
ahead of print.

Mortality among inpatients with systemic lupus erythematosus in a tertiary care 
hospital.

Hanumanthappa MK(1), Gulia M(1), Sharma V(2), Arora N(1), Naidu GS(1), Muthu 
V(3), Sharma V(4), Dhir V(1), Rathi M(5), Kohli HS(5), Jain S(1), Sharma A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education 
and Research, Chandigarh, India.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, 
India.
(3)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Post Graduate Institute of Medical 
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education 
and Research, Chandigarh, India.
(5)Department of Nephrology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.

BackgroundSystemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is associated with significant 
morbidity and mortality, particularly during hospitalisation. Differentiating 
between infection and disease activity is crucial but challenging. Regional 
variations in infection rates and disease manifestations necessitate 
region-specific studies.ObjectivesTo evaluate whether infections at or during 
hospitalisation are associated with increased mortality among SLE patients and 
identify additional predictors of adverse outcomes.MethodsThis retrospective 
case-control study included SLE patients hospitalised between January 2012 and 
December 2021. Cases (n = 111) were patients who expired during hospitalisation, 
matched 1:2 with controls (n = 222) discharged alive, based on age (±3 years) 
and sex, stratified annually. SLE diagnosis was based on ACR 1997 or SLICC 2012 
criteria. COVID-19 cases were excluded. Patients were categorised by admission 
cause as 'Infection', 'Disease-associated', or 'Mixed'. Data on demographics, 
clinical features, laboratory parameters, and treatments were extracted, and 
multivariable logistic regression identified independent predictors of 
mortality.ResultsThe hospital mortality rate was 8.9%. Infection (with or 
without disease activity) significantly contributed to hospital admissions among 
non-survivors (57%) compared to survivors (25%; p < 0.001). Acinetobacter 
baumannii was the most frequent pathogen. Multivariable analysis showed 
infection at hospitalisation (OR 3.37, 95% CI 1.85-6.13), pulmonary involvement 
(OR 3.06, 95% CI 1.52-6.18), cardiac involvement (OR 2.13, 95% CI 1.07-4.25), 
and serum creatinine levels as independent predictors of mortality. Higher serum 
albumin was protective (OR 0.53, 95% CI 0.35-0.79). Juvenile lupus subgroup 
analysis (n = 38) revealed similar infection-related mortality 
patterns.ConclusionsOur study highlights the significant impact of infections, 
particularly hospital-acquired infections, on mortality among hospitalised SLE 
patients. Enhanced clinical vigilance, early interventions, and rigorous 
infection control measures are needed to improve outcomes in hospitalised SLE 
patients.

DOI: 10.1177/09612033251360287
PMID: 40664670


78. Sci Data. 2025 Jul 15;12(1):1227. doi: 10.1038/s41597-025-05551-2.

Multilayer networks describing urban interactions for building the digital twins 
of five cities in Spain.

Rodríguez JP(1)(2), Aleta A(3)(4), Moreno Y(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Física Interdisciplinar y Sistemas Complejos (IFISC), CSIC-UIB, 
Palma de Mallorca, Spain. jorgeprodriguezg@gmail.com.
(2)CA UNED Illes Balears, Palma, Spain. jorgeprodriguezg@gmail.com.
(3)Institute for Biocomputation and Physics of Complex Systems (BIFI), 
University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain.
(4)Department of Theoretical Physics, University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain.

Networks specifying who interacts with whom are crucial for mathematical models 
of epidemic spreading. In the context of emerging diseases, these networks have 
the potential to encode multiple interaction contexts where non-pharmaceutical 
interventions can be introduced, allowing for proper comparisons among different 
intervention strategies in a plethora of contexts. Consequently, a multilayer 
network describing interactions in a population and detailing their contexts in 
different layers constitutes an appropriate tool for such descriptions. These 
approaches however become challenging in large-scale systems such as cities, 
particularly in a framework where data protection policies are enhanced. In this 
work, we present a methodology to build such multilayer networks and make those 
corresponding to five Spanish cities available. Our work uses approaches 
informed by multiple available datasets to create realistic digital twins of the 
citizens and their interactions and provides a playground to explore different 
pandemic scenario in realistic settings for better preparedness.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41597-025-05551-2
PMID: 40664652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Authors declare no 
competing interests.


79. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 15;16(1):6514. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61613-4.

Evaluating the safety of XBB.1.5-containing COVID-19 mRNA vaccines using a 
self-controlled case series study.

Pan Y(1)(2)(3), Han Y(4), Zhou C(5), Zhao L(6), Zheng J(2), Ye X(7)(8), He 
Y(9)(10)(11); N3C Consortium.

Collaborators: Chute CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, People's Hospital of Guizhou Province, Guiyang, 
Guizhou Province, China.
(2)Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Guizhou University Medical College, Guiyang, Guizhou Province, China.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Nephrology, University of 
Michigan, Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan, Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
MI, USA.
(6)Department of Preventive Medicine (Biostatistics Division), Northwestern 
University, Evanston, IL, USA.
(7)Guizhou University Medical College, Guiyang, Guizhou Province, China. 
yxw1205@163.com.
(8)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine and NHC Key Laboratory 
of Immunological Diseases, People's Hospital of Guizhou Province, Guiyang, 
Guizhou Province, China. yxw1205@163.com.
(9)Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA. yongqunh@med.umich.edu.
(10)Department of Learning Health Sciences, University of Michigan Medical 
School, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. yongqunh@med.umich.edu.
(11)Center for Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics, University of Michigan 
Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. yongqunh@med.umich.edu.

The safety of XBB.1.5-containing COVID-19 mRNA vaccines warrants investigation. 
We assessed the relative risk of 15 adverse events following the XBB.1.5 
vaccination using a self-controlled case series study design with data from the 
National COVID Cohort Collaborative (N3C) from September 11, 2023, to June 1, 
2024 in the USA. Based on a baseline population of 244,494 patients, adverse 
events included Guillain-Barré syndrome, seizure, non-hemorrhagic stroke and 
transient ischemic attack, hemorrhagic stroke, narcolepsy or cataplexy, 
anaphylaxis, acute myocardial infarction, myo/pericarditis, coagulopathy, 
multisystem inflammatory syndrome, Bell's palsy, transverse myelitis, 
appendicitis, pulmonary embolism, and encephalitis. We found an association 
between vaccination and anaphylaxis (IRR [95% CI]: day 0-17.35 [9.32-30.03], day 
1-9.35 [5.12-15.95], day 2-6.20 [3.40-10.57], <20 patients in each risk period). 
No other outcomes showed significantly increased risk following vaccination. Our 
results contribute to the safety profile evaluation for XBB.1.5-containing 
COVID-19 mRNA vaccines utilizing N3C big data.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61613-4
PMID: 40664645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


80. Vaccine. 2025 Jul 14:127478. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2025.127478. Online ahead
of  print.

Exploring COVID-19 vaccination behavior: A cross-country study among pregnant 
and postpartum women in Brazil, Ghana, Kenya, and Pakistan.

Limaye RJ(1), Fesshaye B(2), Miller ES(3), Singh P(4), Jessani S(5), Asim M(6), 
Okwaro F(7), Badzi CD(8), Amoah EM(9), Souza RT(10), Costa ML(11), Saleem S(12), 
Temmerman M(13), Torpey K(14), Cecatti JG(15), Brizuela V(16), Schue JL(17).

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, 615 N Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. Electronic address: 
rlimaye@jhu.edu.
(2)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, 615 N Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. Electronic address: 
bfessha1@jhu.edu.
(3)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, 615 N Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. Electronic address: 
emill114@jhmi.edu.
(4)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, 615 N Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. Electronic address: 
prachi@jhu.edu.
(5)Department of Community Health Sciences, Aga Khan University, Stadium Road, 
PO Box 3500, Karachi 74800, Pakistan. Electronic address: 
saleem.jessani@aku.edu.
(6)Department of Community Health Sciences, Aga Khan University, Stadium Road, 
PO Box 3500, Karachi 74800, Pakistan. Electronic address: asim.muhammad@aku.edu.
(7)Aga Khan University Centre of Excellence in Women and Child Health, P.O. Box 
30270, 00100 Nairobi, Kenya.
(8)University of Ghana School of Nursing and Midwifery, P.O. Box LG 43, Legon, 
Accra, Ghana.
(9)University of Ghana School of Public Health, P.O. Box LG 13, Legon, Accra, 
Ghana.
(10)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Campinas 101 
Alexander Fleming Street, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(11)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Campinas 101 
Alexander Fleming Street, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: 
mlaura@unicamp.br.
(12)Department of Community Health Sciences, Aga Khan University, Stadium Road, 
PO Box 3500, Karachi 74800, Pakistan. Electronic address: sarah.saleem@aku.edu.
(13)Aga Khan University Centre of Excellence in Women and Child Health, P.O. Box 
30270, 00100 Nairobi, Kenya. Electronic address: marleen.temmerman@aku.edu.
(14)University of Ghana School of Public Health, P.O. Box LG 13, Legon, Accra, 
Ghana. Electronic address: ktorpey@ug.edu.gh.
(15)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Campinas 101 
Alexander Fleming Street, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: 
cecatti@unicamp.br.
(16)UNDP/UNFPA/UNICEF/WHO/World Bank Special Programme of Research,Development 
and Research Training in Human Reproduction, Department of Sexual and 
Reproductive Health and Research, World Health Organization, Geneva 1211, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: brizuelav@who.int.
(17)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, 615 N Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. Electronic address: 
jlschue@jhu.edu.

Pregnant women infected with SARS-CoV2 are more likely to be hospitalized and 
require ventilation, compared to non-pregnant women. Although the development of 
the COVID-19 vaccine was regarded as a scientific breakthrough among many, the 
pace of development in combination with delayed and unclear recommendations for 
maternal vaccination led to slower vaccine uptake among this population. We 
explored the decision-making process for COVID-19 vaccination among pregnant and 
postpartum women in four countries: Brazil, Ghana, Kenya, and Pakistan through 
201 in-depth interviews. A grounded theory approach was used for analysis, and a 
socio-ecological framework was used to synthesize emerging themes. Four levels 
of influence on vaccine-related attitudes and behaviors were identified: 
individual, interpersonal, community, and policy. Risk perception and beliefs 
about vaccines safety were the primary individual-level factors identified. Risk 
perception of the disease was a common reason for vaccine acceptance, whereas 
lower risk perception emerged as a reason to not vaccinate. Vaccine safety 
concerns, for the pregnant woman herself, her pregnancy, and her baby were 
common across all countries. At the interpersonal level, the influence of the 
male partner and peers emerged across all countries. While participants 
identified the partner or spouse was most influential, they also discussed the 
limited impact the male partner had on decision-making, particularly in Ghana, 
Kenya, and Pakistan. At the community-level, healthcare providers helped in 
allaying vaccine safety concerns, and women looked to them for their health 
expertise and recommendations. At the policy-level, the requirement - real or 
perceived - of vaccination to access services, travel, work, and education was 
an important factor in all countries. Vaccine decision-making is complex, 
multi-faceted, and context-specific. When promoting vaccination among pregnant 
and postpartum women, engaging influential individuals can support the 
successful uptake of maternal vaccination.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2025.127478
PMID: 40664545

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Rupali J. Limaye reports financial 
support was provided by Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


81. Inj Prev. 2025 Jul 15:ip-2024-045452. doi: 10.1136/ip-2024-045452. Online
ahead  of print.

Incidence and characteristics of self-harm during the 3-year period of 
COVID-19-related social distancing in the Republic of Korea.

Jung KY(1), Heo S(2), Kim T(2), Cha WC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine Medicine, Chung-Ang University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, The Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, 
Suwon, The Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, 
Suwon, The Republic of Korea wc.cha@samsung.com.

BACKGROUND: Suicide is a leading cause of mortality worldwide, and self-harm is 
a key risk factor. Continuous monitoring of self-harm trends facilitates 
effective prevention. During the coronavirus disease pandemic, social distancing 
significantly influenced self-harm incidence. This study aimed to compare 
self-harm rates and patient characteristics in 3-year prepandemic and pandemic 
periods (2017-2019 and 2020-2022, respectively).
METHODS: We retrospectively analysed and subdivided the data over 6 years into 
3-month intervals, obtained from the Emergency Department (ED)-based Injury 
In-depth Surveillance database, South Korea, to examine changes in the incidence 
of self-harm in patients visiting the ED from the prepandemic to pandemic period 
and compared the characteristics of patients who attempted self-harm and risk 
factors for in-hospital mortality.
RESULTS: Among 8 02 032 patients (age: 18-64 years), we identified 45 535 
patients with self-harm injuries (overall rate: 5.68%), which significantly 
increased during the pandemic (4.6% (21 852) in 2017-2019 to 7.2% (n=23 683) in 
2020-2022). Age-group-stratified comparisons showed increased self-harm 
incidence across all age groups, especially among women younger than 30 years, 
during the pandemic period. The proportion of self-harm attributed to 
psychological problems increased markedly. However, the two periods showed no 
significant difference in the in-hospital mortality.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: The incidence of self-harm significantly increased 
and remained consistently higher in patients visiting EDs throughout the 
pandemic period than during the 3 years prepandemic, even after the relaxation 
of social distancing measures. Young women primarily drove this increase, and 
psychological problems constituted a major risk factor.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/ip-2024-045452
PMID: 40664500

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


82. BMJ Open. 2025 Jul 15;15(7):e098820. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2025-098820.

Impact of a community-based asynchronous review clinic on appointment attendance 
delays across an eye hospital network in London, UK: an interrupted time series 
analysis.

Ndwandwe S(1), Fu DJ(2), Adesanya J(3), Bazo-Alvarez JC(4)(5), Ramsay AIG(6), 
Fulop NJ(7), Magnusson J(6), Napier S(2), Cammack J(2), Baker H(2), Kumpunen 
S(6), Alarcón Garavito GA(6), Elphinstone H(6), Mills G(8), Scully P(9), Symons 
A(8), Webster P(10), Wilson J(3), Khaw PT(2), Sivaprasad S(2), Jayaram H(2), 
Foster PJ(2), Clarke CS(4); HERCULES Research Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University College 
London, London, UK s.ndwandwe@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research 
Centre (BRC) at Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and UCL Institute 
of Ophthalmology, London, UK.
(3)Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(4)Research Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University College 
London, London, UK.
(5)Escuela de Medicina, Universidad Cesar Vallejo, Trujillo, Peru.
(6)Research Department of Behavioural Science and Health, University College 
London, London, UK.
(7)Institute of Epidemiology and Health Care, University College London, London, 
UK.
(8)University College London The Bartlett School of Sustainable Construction, 
London, UK.
(9)University College London The Bartlett School of Architecture, London, UK.
(10)Ubisense Ltd, Cambridge, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of opening a large community-based asynchronous 
review ophthalmic clinic on attendance delays among patients with stable chronic 
eye disease attending a London teaching eye hospital network.
DESIGN: Interrupted time-series analysis of routine electronic health records of 
appointment attendances.
SETTING: A large eye hospital network with facilities across London, UK, between 
June 2018 and April 2023.
PARTICIPANTS: We analysed 69 257 attendances from 39 357 patients, with glaucoma 
and medical retina accounting for 62% (n=42 982) and 38% (n=26 275) of visits, 
respectively. Patients over 65 made up 54% (n=37 824) of attendances, while 53% 
(n=37 014) were from the more deprived half of the population, and 51% 
(n=35 048) were males.
INTERVENTION: An asynchronous review clinic opened in a shopping centre in 
London, in autumn 2021, following the COVID-19 lockdown in spring 2020.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Average attendance delays (days), calculated as the 
difference between follow-up attendance date and the latest clinically 
appropriate date determined at the preceding attendance.
RESULTS: Pre-COVID-19, attendance delays for chronic eye disease monitoring were 
increasing by 0.9 days per week (95% CI, 0.8 to 0.9) on average, worsening to 
2.0 days per week (95% CI, 2.0 to 2.0) after the first COVID-19 national 
lockdown, mid-March 2020. Opening the asynchronous review clinic increased 
appointment capacity, with delays decreasing on average by 8.1 days per week 
(95% CI, 8.1 to 8.2) shortly after opening. The rate of decrease slowed to 0.3 
days per week (95% CI, 0.3 to 0.3) after 5 months. We found no significant 
differences in average attendance delays by age, gender or level of deprivation.
CONCLUSION: The asynchronous review clinic significantly reduced attendance 
delays across the hospital network, addressing pre-existing backlog for stable 
chronic eye diseases. The reduction appeared to be maintained after the initial 
backlog had been cleared.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2025-098820
PMID: 40664400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: HB, JC, PJF, HJ and PTK 
acknowledge salary support from the National Institute for Health and Care 
Research (NIHR) through a grant for a Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) at 
Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and UCL Institute of Ophthalmology. 
Additionally, PJF reports personal fees from Abbvie, Allergan, AlphaSights, Carl 
Zeiss, DeepMind, Google Health, GLG, Guidepoint, PwC and Santen, as well as a 
grant from Alcon, all outside the submitted work. HJ has consulted for Allergan, 
Ivantis, Scope Ophthalmics and Rebio; received honoraria for lectures and 
educational events from Allergan, Laboratoires Théa, and Santen; received 
support to attend meetings from Allergan; participated on an Advisory Board for 
Allergan. SS reports receiving research grants from Novartis, Bayer, Allergan, 
Roche, Boehringer, Ingelheim and Optos plc, travel grants from Novartis, Bayer, 
speaker fees from Novartis, Bayer and Optos plc, and attending advisory board 
meetings for Novartis, Bayer, Allergan, Roche, Boehringer, Ingelheim, Optos plc, 
Apellis, Oculis and Eyebiotech. Sir Peng T Khaw is also supported by the Helen 
Hamlyn Trust, the Nolan Family, the Katz Foundation and reports consulting and 
lecturing at Aerie Pharmaceuticals and consulting for Novartis, Thea, Glaukos, 
Santen, Genentech, CMER Hospital Group, Hong Kong Alcon, ISA RNA Therapeutics 
GmbH; he is also on the Advisory Board of Novartis, DrugTech, Santen, CRICK 
Institute Translational Advisory Group, and Decisions on health Care to 
Introduce or Diffuse innovations using Evidence (DECIDE). NJF is an NIHR Senior 
Investigator. SN and CSC hold honorary research contracts from Moorfields Eye 
Hospital to perform this work. PW reports receiving support from Ubisense 
Limited in the form of equipment used for tracking participants as part of the 
HERCULES project. This equipment was loaned at a subsidised rate, primarily 
covering initial installation and customisation costs. AIGR is a trustee at 
Health Services Research UK. NJF is an NIHR Senior Investigator and 
Non-Executive Director at Covid-19 Bereaved Families for Justice UK. She was a 
Non-Executive Director at Whittington Health NHS Trust until October 2024 and a 
trustee at Health Services Research UK until 2022; she was a member of the UKRI 
and NIHR College of Experts for Covid-19 Research Funding (2020), the NIHR 
Health Services and Delivery Research (HS&DR) Programme Funding Committee 
(2013-2018), and the HS&DR Evidence Synthesis Sub Board (2016). NJF and AIGR are 
supported by the NIHR Central London Patient Safety Research Collaboration. All 
other authors have no competing interests to declare.


83. Clin Infect Dis. 2025 Jul 16:ciaf318. doi: 10.1093/cid/ciaf318. Online ahead
of  print.

Antibody Response in Healthcare Workers During the Severe Acute Respiratory 
Syndrome Coronavirus 2 Gamma Variant Outbreak in Manaus, Brazil.

Siza C(1)(2), Plucinski M(1), Lessa FC(1)(2), Campelo E(3), Padoveze MC(4), 
Vieira AR(1), Parra G(2), Araujo G(5), Nichiata LYI(4), Silva-Flannery L(1), 
Lima K(6), Tapajos AC(7), Vieira A(7), Morgan J(8), Freire Esteves RJ(8), 
Marston B(1), Fernandes da Costa C(9), Naveca FG(10), Amorim Ramos TC(3), 
Lalwani P(10)(11); Brazil Healthcare Personnel COVID-19 team.

Collaborators: Rebello K, Mattos T, Rocha A, Barbosa A, Deane M, da Silva LTP, 
da Silva JF, Hatfield KM.

Author information:
(1)COVID-19 Response - International Task Force, Centers for Diseases Control 
and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(2)Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(3)Fundação de Vigilância em Saúde do Estado do Amazonas, Manaus, Amazonas, 
Brazil.
(4)Universidade de São Paulo, Escola de Enfermagem, São Paulo, Sao Paulo, 
Brazil.
(5)Laboratório Central do Amazonas (LACEN), Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.
(6)Hospital Pronto Socorro 28 de Agosto, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.
(7)Hospital Pronto Socorro Platão Araújo, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.
(8)South America Regional Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC), Brasília, Federal District, Brazil.
(9)Conselho de Secretarias Municipais de Saúde do Amazonas, Manaus, Amazonas, 
Brazil.
(10)Instituto Leônidas e Maria Deane, Fiocruz, Amazonas, Brazil.
(11)Laboratory of Infectious Diseases and Immunology (IDI), ILMD-FIOCRUZ 
Amazônia/ICB-UFAM, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to evaluate severe acute respiratory syndrome 
coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)-specific binding and neutralizing antibody responses 
in healthcare workers (HCWs) who received coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) 
vaccines, with or without postvaccination infections.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective, observational cohort study of HCW in 2 
hospitals in Manaus, Brazil. From 31 March through 31 May 2021, HCWs had nasal 
swabs collected and questionnaires administered weekly for 4 visits. Nasal swabs 
were tested for SARS-CoV-2 by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain 
reaction (rRT-PCR). Blood specimens were obtained at visits 1 and 4 unless the 
HCW was found to be infected. If infected, a blood specimen was collected on 
days 14 and 28 after symptom onset or date of positive specimen, if 
asymptomatic. COVID-19 vaccination cards, state immunization records, and 
self-reported history of previous SARS-CoV-2 infection were obtained. Fully 
vaccinated HCWs who tested SARS-CoV-2 rRT-PCR positive were classified as 
postvaccination infections.
RESULTS: A total of 771 HCWs were enrolled, with 73.7% (568/771) fully 
vaccinated. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 S1 immunoglobulin G and neutralizing antibody levels 
showed steep decay within the first 50 days after COVID-19 vaccination. HCWs 
with prior SARS-CoV-2 infection had slower visible decay after 50 days compared 
with those without prior infection. We identified 12 postvaccination infections 
of 16 HCWs who were SARS-CoV-2 rRT-PCR+, including 4 who also reported previous 
infection. Those positive for SARS-CoV-2 had lower baseline neutralizing 
antibody levels against Gamma and Delta variants preinfection (median log10 
titers [interquartile range]: Gamma, 1.5 [3]; Delta: 0 [0.25]) compared to those 
who remained rRT-PCR negative (median log10 titers [interquartile range]: Gamma, 
3 [2]; Delta, 1 [2]).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight the importance of routine antibody 
surveillance, targeted boosters, and hybrid immunity in low and middle income 
countries. Timely booster doses for HCWs and the development of new vaccines 
against emerging variants can help sustain immunity and prevent workforce 
shortages, strengthening healthcare resilience in resource-limited settings.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/ciaf318
PMID: 40664396

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest. The authors: No 
reported conflicts of interest. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for 
Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest.


84. J Adv Nurs. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1111/jan.70079. Online ahead of print.

Exploring Nurses' Work Resumption Behaviour and Its Related Factors Under 
Emerging Infectious Diseases Pandemic: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Xu K(1)(2), Liu H(3), Chen H(2), Hu Q(2), Wang C(2), Huang X(4), Jiang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, West China Hospital, Sichuan University/West 
China School of Nursing, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(2)Evidence-Based Nursing Center, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(3)Department of Critical Care Medicine, West China Hospital, Sichuan 
University/West China School of Nursing, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 
China.
(4)Mental Health Center, West China Hospital, Sichuan University/West China 
School of Nursing, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(5)Department of Nursing, West China Hospital, Sichuan University/West China 
School of Nursing, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.

AIM: In December 2022, a large population infected with COVID-19 emerged in 
China, including frontline nurses. To maintain the medical system's function, 
many infected nurses returned to work before full recovery. This study aims to 
examine the characteristics of work resumption behaviour among the infected 
nurses and its influencing factors.
DESIGN: A nationwide cross-sectional study utilising questionnaire data.
METHODS: An indicator was developed to assess the work resumption behaviour: 
work resumption type (autonomous work resumption, constrained work resumption). 
As the possible influencing factors of work resumption type, professional 
commitment, organisational commitment and psychological capital were included 
and measured by the Professional Commitment Scale (PCS), Organizational 
Commitment Questionnaire (OCQ), and Psychological Capital Questionnaire (PCQ). 
The logistic regression models were applied to estimate the association between 
the score of the PCS, OCQ, PCQ, and work resumption type.
RESULTS: A total of 30,062 nurses were included. The mean time of nurses 
returning to work after infection was 1.8 days, with 88.6% exhibiting autonomous 
work resumption behaviour. One standard deviation increment in the score of the 
PCS, OCQ, and PCQ was associated with a 41% (OR = 1.41), 29% (OR = 1.29) and 42% 
(OR = 1.42) average increase in the odds of having an autonomous work 
resumption, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The majority of nurses returned to work before full recovery during 
the pandemic. Elevated professional commitment, organisational commitment and 
psychological capital were associated with autonomous work resumption behaviour.
IMPACT: The large-scale work resumption in this emerging infectious disease 
outbreak demonstrated that the healthcare system should reevaluate nursing 
workforce growth targets for pandemics. It is still warranted for future 
research to explore the long-term effects of work resumption on individual and 
organisational levels.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese clinical trial registry: ChiCTR2300067706 (January 
8, 2023).

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jan.70079
PMID: 40664350


85. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Jul 13:145882. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.145882.
 Online ahead of print.

A dual-tag strategy with superfolder green fluorescent protein (sfGFP) and small 
ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) for soluble expression of SARS-CoV-2 RNA 
polymerase visibly in Escherichia coli.

Song H(1), Wang F(2), Xie W(3), Chen Z(4), He R(5), Fang Y(6), He Q(7), Yang 
S(8), Ma L(9).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, and School of 
Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China. Electronic address: 
Haoyue.Song@stu.hubu.edu.cn.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, and School of 
Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China. Electronic address: 
wangfei@hubu.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, and School of 
Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China. Electronic address: 
202221107011790@stu.hubu.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, and School of 
Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China. Electronic address: 
chenzhizhao@stu.hubu.edu.cn.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, and School of 
Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, and School of 
Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China. Electronic address: 
yufang@stu.hubu.edu.cn.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, and School of 
Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China. Electronic address: 
Qiaoninghe@hubu.edu.cn.
(8)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, and School of 
Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China. Electronic address: 
Shihui.Yang@hubu.edu.cn.
(9)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, and School of 
Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China. Electronic address: 
malixing@hubu.edu.cn.

RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) of SARS-CoV-2 composed of three 
non-structural proteins NSP12, NSP8, and NSP7, which is responsible for 
replication and transcription, making it a promising target for antiviral drug 
development. However, the limited solubility presents a significant challenge in 
the expression of NSP12, restricting in-depth research in both scientific and 
clinical fields. To address the challenge of soluble expression of NSP12 using 
the bacterial expression system, we developed a strategy integrating the 
super-folder GFP (sfGFP) tag to overcome the low solubility of NSP12 in this 
study. By engineering an sfGFP-mediated auto-secretion platform that eliminates 
signal peptides while enabling real-time visualization, we achieved soluble 
production of all RdRp subunits (NSP12/8/7) using a two-step nickel-affinity 
purification strategy in E. coli. Furthermore, the tandem sfGFP-SUMO fusion 
strategy and optimized expression conditions (18 °C, 0.5 mM IPTG) were used to 
enhance the efficient expression of NSP12, further boosting the yield of NSP12 
to 1.73 mg/L. This produced all soluble RdRp subunits (NSP12/8/7), with 
size-exclusion chromatography confirming complex assembly, offering a universal 
framework for other important insoluble viral protein production. The 
integration of real-time visualization with hyper-solubility of this system 
addresses both the technical barrier in viral protein expression and the urgent 
need for scalable antiviral drug development platforms.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.145882
PMID: 40664321

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


86. J Affect Disord. 2025 Jul 13:119884. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.119884. Online 
ahead of print.

The association between perinatal maternal mental health during the COVID-19 
pandemic and offspring neurodevelopment at 24 months of age.

Sindalovsky A(1), Geisler K(2), Huddleston HG(3), Cedars MI(4), Jaswa EG(5), 
Huddleston R(6), Julian-Kwong M(7), Corley J(8), Hoskin E(9), Lindquist KJ(10).

Author information:
(1)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
anna.sindalovsky@ucsf.edu.
(2)School of Public Health, 2121 Berkeley Way, University of California, 
Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94704, USA. Electronic address: kgeisler@berkeley.edu.
(3)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
heather.huddleston@ucsf.edu.
(4)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
marcelle.cedars@ucsf.edu.
(5)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
eleni.jaswa@ucsf.edu.
(6)Depertment of Integrative Biology, 45 Noland Hall, 250 N Mills St, University 
of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53706, USA. Electronic address: 
rhhuddleston@wisc.edu.
(7)Department of Neuroscience, Box G-LN, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, 
USA. Electronic address: maya_julian-kwong@brown.edu.
(8)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
jamie.corley@ucsf.edu.
(9)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
elena.hoskin@ucsf.edu.
(10)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University 
of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
karla.lindquist@ucsf.edu.

BACKGROUND: Prenatal anxiety and depression have been linked to adverse 
childhood neurodevelopment, potentially through cortisol-induced epigenetic 
changes. Postpartum depression is also associated with neurodevelopmental 
delays, possibly via altered parental attachment. While prenatal and postpartum 
mental health may be correlated, their relative and independent impacts on 
offspring neurodevelopment remain unclear. This study examines the effects of 
prenatal and postpartum anxiety and/or depression on neurodevelopmental delay at 
24 months.
METHODS: In a nationwide prospective cohort from the "Assessing the Safety of 
Pregnancy in the Coronavirus Pandemic" study, prenatal anxiety (GAD-7), prenatal 
depression (PHQ-9), and six-week postpartum depression (EPDS) were assessed. 
Childhood neurodevelopment was measured using the Ages and Stages Questionnaire, 
3rd edition (ASQ-3). Logistic regression tested associations between 
moderate-to-severe maternal anxiety/depression and neurodevelopmental delay, 
adjusting for participant age, education, household income, and residential 
density. Alcohol, nicotine, anxiety/depression medication use during pregnancy, 
and preterm birth were considered as moderators/mediators.
RESULTS: Offspring of participants experiencing both prenatal and postpartum 
moderate-to-severe anxiety or depression (N = 62) had a higher risk of 
neurodevelopmental delay at 24 months compared to those who experienced neither 
(N = 1060) with an adjusted risk ratio of 1.88 (p < 0.001). While delay risk was 
higher in offspring of those with only prenatal (N = 218) or postpartum (N = 45) 
anxiety/depression, these were not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Having both moderate-to-severe prenatal and postpartum anxiety or 
depression independently increased the risk of developmental delay at 24 months, 
even after adjusting for confounders. Further research is needed to explore 
underlying mechanisms linking maternal mental health and fetal neurodevelopment.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.119884
PMID: 40664315

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Marcelle I. Cedars reports 
financial support was provided by Start Smal Foundation. Marcelle I. Cedars 
reports financial support was provided by California Breast Cancer Research 
Program. Marcelle I. Cedars reports financial support was provided by COVID 
Catalyst Award. Marcelle I. Cedars reports financial support was provided by 
AbbVie Inc. Marcelle I. Cedars reports financial support was provided by Ferring 
Pharmaceuticals. Marcelle I. Cedars reports administrative support was provided 
by The Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology. Heather G. Huddleston 
reports a relationship with Allara Health that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Heather G. Huddleston reports a relationship with May Health that includes: 
funding grants. Heather G. Huddleston reports a relationship with Rejoni that 
includes: funding grants. Marcelle I. Cedars reports a relationship with 
American Society for Reproductive Medicine that includes: board membership. 
Marcelle I. Cedars reports a relationship with American Gynecological & 
Obstetrical Society that includes: board membership. Marcelle I. Cedars reports 
a relationship with UptoDate Inc. that includes: consulting or advisory. Eleni 
G. Jaswa reports a relationship with Oura Health that includes: consulting or 
advisory. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


87. Neuroscience. 2025 Jul 13:S0306-4522(25)00767-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.07.005. Online ahead of print.

Repeated low doses of lipopolysaccharide exacerbate behavioral changes induced 
by social isolation.

Pereira GC(1), Piton E(1), Viero FT(1), Arboit F(2), de Andrade LG(3), Portela 
VM(3), Zanchet EM(1), Trevisan G(1), Bochi GV(4).

Author information:
(1)Center of Health Sciences, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Federal 
University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; Center of Health Sciences, 
Postgraduate Program in Pharmacology, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa 
Maria, RS, Brazil.
(2)Center of Rural Sciences, Postgraduate Program in Veterinary Medicine, 
Federal University of Santa Maria (UFSM), Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Biotechnology and Animal Reproduction (BioRep), Veterinary 
Hospital, Federal University of Santa Maria (UFSM), Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(4)Center of Health Sciences, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Federal 
University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; Center of Health Sciences, 
Postgraduate Program in Pharmacology, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa 
Maria, RS, Brazil. Electronic address: guilherme.bochi@ufsm.br.

Social isolation (SI) due to Coronavirus disease 2019 had a substantial impact 
on mental health, increasing cases of major depressive disorder (MDD) and 
anxiety. Young individuals are notably affected, as research indicates that 
inflammatory responses can trigger mental health disorders, with chronic stress 
worsening this effect. Thus, the primary objective of this study was to 
investigate the combination of SI with repeated low doses of an inflammation 
inducer in young mice on behavioral and molecular changes in adulthood. For 
this, young Swiss male mice were housed in groups or isolated and administered 
intraperitoneally either low doses of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or saline for 
6 weeks. In the seventh week, behavioral tests were carried out. Another cohort 
of animals, at the end of the 6-week experimental protocol, was subjected to the 
restraint stress challenge (RSC) before behavioral tests. Our results suggest 
that the SI disrupts the animal's self-grooming and memory, in addition to 
inducing an anxiety-related behavioral phenotype and increasing the expression 
of transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) in the hippocampus. On the 
other hand, the LPS administration triggered despair-like behavior accompanied 
by an increase in hippocampal microglial activation. When SI and LPS were 
combined, the behavioral changes were added. Concerning RSC, in general, it 
reversed most of the changes induced by the protocols. In this way, it can be 
concluded that repeated administration of low doses of LPS in young mice housed 
alone induced behavioral changes in different features observed in MDD.

Copyright © 2025 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.07.005
PMID: 40664297

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


88. J Struct Biol. 2025 Jul 13:108234. doi: 10.1016/j.jsb.2025.108234. Online
ahead  of print.

Binding of an N protein peptide to M protein of a bat coronavirus.

Wang X(1), Yang S(1), Yang P(1), Sun Z(1), Zhou X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, State Key 
Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
Sichuan 610041, China.
(2)Department of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, State Key 
Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
Sichuan 610041, China. Electronic address: x.zhou@scu.edu.cn.

The interaction between the membrane (M) protein and the nucleocapsid (N) 
protein of coronaviruses plays a crucial role in virus assembly and 
morphogenesis. Previous studies indicate that one M-N interaction occurs between 
M protein and the carboxy-terminus of N protein. However, the mechanistic 
details of M-N interactions remain unclear. Here, we present a complex structure 
of an N protein carboxy-terminal peptide bound to M protein from Pipistrellus 
bat coronavirus HKU5. The structure shows that the M-N peptide binding site 
includes a "horizontal" groove located between the carboxy-terminal domain and 
the transmembrane domain of M protein. Combined with molecular docking and 
binding analysis, our results provide structural insight into the binding 
mechanism between M and N proteins of a coronavirus.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsb.2025.108234
PMID: 40664277

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


89. J Virol Methods. 2025 Jul 13:115224. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2025.115224.
Online  ahead of print.

Establishment of an indirect ELISA for Feline Coronavirus Antibody Detection and 
Serotype Discrimination.

Lu X(1), Hu Y(1), Chen X(1), Shen Y(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Animal Disease Control and Prevention, Center for 
Emerging and Zoonotic Diseases, College of Veterinary Medicine, South China 
Agricultural University, Guangzhou, 510642, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Animal Disease Control and Prevention, Center for 
Emerging and Zoonotic Diseases, College of Veterinary Medicine, South China 
Agricultural University, Guangzhou, 510642, China; School of Agriculture and 
Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China. Electronic 
address: shenyy@scau.edu.cn.

Feline coronavirus (FCoV) is a highly contagious pathogen that is endemic to 
feline populations and is classified into two serotypes, I and II. Current 
diagnostic techniques are insufficient for distinguishing between these 
serotypes, which impedes effective surveillance and prevention efforts. In 
response to this limitation, we have developed an indirect enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) utilizing recombinant nucleocapsid (N) protein for 
the broad detection of FCoV, alongside receptor-binding domain (RBD) proteins 
specific to serotypes I (I-RBD) and II (II-RBD) for the purpose of serotype 
differentiation. The assay underwent systematic optimization, achieving high 
sensitivity (with detection limits of 1:64,000 dilution for N and I-RBD, and 
1:32,000 for II-RBD) and specificity, exhibiting no cross-reactivity with feline 
calicivirus (FCV), feline herpesvirus (FHV), or feline parvovirus (FPV). The 
reproducibility of the assay was validated, with intra- and inter-assay 
coefficients of variation remaining below 10%. Clinical validation conducted on 
123 feline serum samples indicated a seroprevalence of 73.17%, with the serotype 
distribution comprising 91.11% serotype I, 1.11% serotype II, 2.22% mixed 
infections, and 5.56% cases that could not be typed. This ELISA represents a 
rapid, cost-effective, and field-deployable method for large-scale FCoV 
surveillance and serotyping, thereby contributing to enhanced feline health 
management and epidemiological research.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2025.115224
PMID: 40664264

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


90. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Jul 14;189:118346. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118346.  Online ahead of print.

Do vitamins halt the COVID-19-evoked pro-inflammatory cytokines involved in the 
development of neuropathic pain?

Al-Khrasani M(1), Essmat N(2), Boldizsár I Jr(2), Varga BT(2), Chalabiani Y(2), 
Abbood SK(2), Ernyey AJ(2), Király K(2), Máté A(2), Riba P(2), Timár J(3), 
Gyertyán I(2), Miklya I(2), Parenti C(4), Pasquinucci L(4), Ágg B(5), Fürst 
S(2), Ferdinandy P(5), Vizi ES(6), Harsing LG Jr(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Nagyvárad tér 4, Budapest H-1085, Hungary; Center for 
Pharmacology and Drug Research & Development, Semmelweis University, Üllői út 
26., Budapest H-1085, Hungary. Electronic address: 
al-khrasani.mahmoud@semmelweis.hu.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Nagyvárad tér 4, Budapest H-1085, Hungary; Center for 
Pharmacology and Drug Research & Development, Semmelweis University, Üllői út 
26., Budapest H-1085, Hungary.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Nagyvárad tér 4, Budapest H-1085, Hungary.
(4)Department of Drug and Health Sciences, University of Catania, Viale A. Doria 
6, Catania 95125, Italy.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Nagyvárad tér 4, Budapest H-1085, Hungary; Center for 
Pharmacology and Drug Research & Development, Semmelweis University, Üllői út 
26., Budapest H-1085, Hungary; Pharmahungary Group, Hajnóczy utca 6., Szeged 
H-6722, Hungary.
(6)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Nagyvárad tér 4, Budapest H-1085, Hungary; Institute of 
Experimental Medicine, Eötvös Lóránd Research Network, Szigony utca 43., 
Budapest 1083, Hungary.

Neuropathic pain (NP), a disease affecting the somatosensory nervous system, 
causes a high socioeconomic burden on healthcare systems and society; yet, its 
management has not been fully solved. Post COVID-19, with sequelae of the 
somatosensory system, further increases the number of individuals with chronic 
pain, thus further exacerbating the social burden related to NP. The 
pro-inflammatory mediators, such as TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6, are massively 
released in patients with COVID-19 and are known to be involved in the 
pathomechanisms of NP, particularly in relation to neuronal sensitization. 
Specifically, the release of large amounts of these pro-inflammatory cytokines 
from immune and non-immune effector cells during the acute and post COVID-19 
phases prone to have substantial involvement in the development of post COVID-19 
NP. Several preclinical and clinical studies have shown that vitamins' 
supplementation, namely vitamins A, B1, B2, B3, B5, B6, B7, B9, B12, C, D, E, 
and K can attenuate the enhanced release of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6. The early 
supplementation of these vitamins may mitigate the neuronal sensitization evoked 
by cytokine storm due to COVID-19 or other viruses. This strategy may provide a 
novel approach to prevent the development of post COVID-19 NP. This review 
highlights the mechanisms by which COVID-19 can induce NP and how vitamins may 
help to alleviate these post COVID-19 sequelae.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118346
PMID: 40664036

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Péter 
Ferdinandya is the founder and CEO of Pharmahungary Group, a group of R&D 
companies. Other authors affirm that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could be perceived as influencing the 
work reported in this paper.


91. J Mycol Med. 2025 Jun 28;35(3):101569. doi: 10.1016/j.mycmed.2025.101569.
Online  ahead of print.

Intraventricular mould infection suggestive of Aspergillosis in a 2-year-old 
child with successful clinical outcomes.

Ram HT(1), Karthigeyan M(2), Sekar A(3), Kaur H(4), Salunke P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education & 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, India.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education & 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, India. Electronic address: 
karthigeyanm82@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Histopathology, PGIMER, Chandigarh, India.
(4)Department of Medical Microbiology, Mycology Division, Center of Advanced 
Research in Medical Mycology & WHO Collaborating Center, PGIMER, Chandigarh, 
160012, India.

Pediatric isolated central nervous system (CNS) mould infections are uncommon 
but potentially fatal if not promptly diagnosed and treated. Such invasive 
lesions usually present as abscesses in parenchymal locations. Although the 
newer azole antifungals have shown improved outcomes, treatment data are limited 
in the pediatric age group, especially in young children. We report a case of a 
very young child with an unusual location of mould infection, in the temporal 
horn of the lateral ventricle, managed successfully. The 2-year-old-male child 
with prior COVID-19 infection and no other apparent immune dysfunction presented 
with features of raised intracranial pressure. CT/MRI imaging demonstrated a 
left temporal horn cystic lesion. Following an initial non-diagnostic aspiration 
of the cyst contents, the child underwent excision of the lesion. The potassium 
hydroxide stain of the content revealed hyaline septate hyphae, but the fungal 
culture was sterile. Histopathology of the specimen was highly suggestive of 
aspergillosis. The child was adequately treated with voriconazole, and had 
excellent clinical outcome at 22-month follow up. Rarely, CNS mould infection 
can manifest as an intraventricular space occupying lesion in children. Such a 
differential must be borne in mind. In our case, the infection was possibly a 
COVID-19 sequelae. The case also highlights the potential for successful 
clinical outcomes with an early and aggressive voriconazole treatment in 
pediatric intracranial mould infections, most likely aspergillosis.

Copyright © 2025 SFMM. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mycmed.2025.101569
PMID: 40663921

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


92. J Environ Manage. 2025 Jul 14;391:126533. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2025.126533.
 Online ahead of print.

Critical exposure windows of PM2.5-Meteorological interactions triggering 
pediatric mycoplasma pneumoniae epidemics: An age-stratified distributed lag 
nonlinear modeling approach.

Wang F(1), Huang W(1), Shi F(2), Li Y(3), Li Y(4), Zhang Q(4), Shang Y(1), Chen 
N(1), Xu W(5), Cheng Q(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, 110000, China.
(2)Department of Health Management, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, Liaoning, 110000, China.
(3)Institute of Atmospheric Environment, China Meteorological Administration, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, 110166, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical 
University, Liaoning Clinical Research Center for Laboratory Medicine, Shenyang, 
Liaoning, 110000, China.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, 110000, China. Electronic address: tomxu.123@163.com.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, 110000, China. Electronic address: qcheng@cmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The rising prevalence of Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection (MPI) in 
children, a leading cause of severe pneumonia and mortality, highlights the need 
to clarify impacts of air pollution and meteorological factors.
METHODS: This study analyzed associations of PM2.5, temperature, and humidity 
with outpatient MPI, inpatient MPP, and severe MPP (SMPP). Data on 391,559 
children from 15 Northeast China hospitals (2017-2023) were analyzed using a 
distributed lag nonlinear model, with sensitivity analysis after 2020 (COVID-19 
onset).
RESULTS: PM2.5 (60-100 μg/m3) showed nonlinear associations with outpatient MPI 
(7-15-day lag, RR = 2.28 at 100 μg/m3, 10-day lag), especially in preschoolers. 
Temperature correlated positively with outpatient MPI (peaks at 20 °C/30 °C, 
7-10-day lag; RR = 1.82 at 30 °C, 10-day lag), with high temperatures increasing 
female MPP/SMPP risk. Humidity had a U-shaped association with outpatient MPI 
(20 %/100 % humidity increased risk 2.75/2.18-fold at 15-day lag), with high 
humidity elevating female/school-age SMPP risk (RR = 5.32). Trends were 
consistent pre/post-COVID-19.
CONCLUSION: High PM2.5, high temperature, and extreme humidity correlate with 
increased childhood MPI cases and severity, emphasizing targeted strategies for 
extreme conditions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2025.126533
PMID: 40663891

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


93. Water Res. 2025 Jul 7;286:124176. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2025.124176. Online 
ahead of print.

Using a hybrid modelling approach for high time-resolution prediction of 
influent orthophosphate load in a water resource recovery facility.

Wärff C(1), Carlsson B(2), Arnell M(3), Micolucci F(4), Samuelsson O(5), 
Jeppsson U(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Industrial Electrical Engineering and Automation (IEA), 
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Lund University, P.O. Box 118, SE-22100, 
Lund, Sweden; RISE Research Institutes of Sweden AB, Gibraltargatan 35, 
SE-41279, Gothenburg, Sweden. Electronic address: christoffer.warff@iea.lth.se.
(2)Division of Systems and Control, Department of Information Technology, 
Uppsala University, PO Box 337, SE-75105, Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: 
bengt.carlsson@it.uu.se.
(3)Division of Industrial Electrical Engineering and Automation (IEA), 
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Lund University, P.O. Box 118, SE-22100, 
Lund, Sweden; RISE Research Institutes of Sweden AB, Gibraltargatan 35, 
SE-41279, Gothenburg, Sweden. Electronic address: magnus.arnell@iea.lth.se.
(4)Nordvästra Skånes Vatten och Avlopp, PO Box 2022, SE-25002, Helsingborg, 
Sweden. Electronic address: federico.micolucci@nsva.se.
(5)IVL Swedish Environmental Research Institute, Valhallavägen 81, Stockholm, 
114 28, Sweden. Electronic address: oscar.samuelsson@ivl.se.
(6)Division of Industrial Electrical Engineering and Automation (IEA), 
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Lund University, P.O. Box 118, SE-22100, 
Lund, Sweden. Electronic address: ulf.jeppsson@iea.lth.se.

Water resource recovery facilities face challenges with increasingly stringent 
effluent demands, complexity and demand for capacity increasing investments. 
Emerging technologies such as digital twins could alleviate these problems but 
require high frequency influent data. This work presents a method for utilising 
measurements in the primary clarifier effluent with a model of the processes 
between the influent and primary clarifier effluent to predict influent 
orthophosphate load for a plant with considerable internal load. Five functions 
for describing daily load variations were tested and compared for accuracy and 
computational time. All functions were shown to reproduce the measured primary 
effluent orthophosphate concentration with high accuracy, although the function 
based on four normal distributions was deemed the most suitable due to its short 
computational time, realistic influent concentration variations and accurate 
estimated primary effluent orthophosphate concentration. Validation of the 
optimised influent concentrations shows that it follows similar patterns but 
might overpredict the afternoon load, which could be due to deviating daily 
patterns by inhabitants during the COVID-19 pandemic (although this requires 
further investigation). The presented methodology can be extended also to 
estimate influent COD-fractions, automate plant calibration and optimise plant 
performance.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2025.124176
PMID: 40663854

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


94. Int Immunopharmacol. 2025 Jul 14;163:115226. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115226.  Online ahead of print.

The role of ELK4 up-regulation in macrophage polarization and its mechanism in 
connective tissue disease-associated interstitial lung disease.

Zheng Y(1), Fan G(2), Xiao Y(1), Peng Y(1), Hu M(1), Shen S(1), Liu S(1), Meng 
Z(1), Zhang R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical 
University,Shenyang 110001,Liaoning,China.
(2)Department of Pathology,Shengjing Hospital Affiliated to China Medical 
University,China.
(3)Department of Rheumatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical 
University,Shenyang 110001,Liaoning,China. Electronic address: 
zhangrongcmu@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the role of ETS domain containing protein ELK4 in 
macrophage polarization and pulmonary fibrosis in connective tissue 
disease-related interstitial lung disease(CTD-ILD).
METHODS: This study analyzed gene expression datasets (SSc-ILD, ALI, COVID-19) 
to identify target genes in CTD-ILD. We performed RT-qPCR, Western blot, and 
immunohistochemistry to assess macrophage polarization and 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) both in vitro and in a mouse model of 
pulmonary fibrosis. Non-invasive lung function testing was also conducted.
RESULTS: Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that reduced ELK4 expression is 
associated with ILD. In CTD-ILD patients, lower ELK4 levels correlated with 
higher KL-6 and ferritin, and lower DLCO. In vitro, ELK4 down-regulation 
increased macrophage markers (CD86 and iNOS) and p38/JNK phosphorylation, while 
promoting mesenchymal markers (N-cadherin, Vimentin) and inhibiting E-cadherin. 
In the bleomycin-induced fibrosis model, ELK4 overexpression reversed these 
changes, improved lung function, and reduced IL-6 and TNF-α levels in 
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF).
CONCLUSION: The reduced expression of ELK4 activates the p38 and ERK signaling 
pathways in the MAPK signaling pathway, promoting macrophage polarization toward 
the M1 phenotype. These findings demonstrate that ELK4 plays a crucial role in 
the pathogenesis of CTD-ILD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115226
PMID: 40663811

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


95. PLoS One. 2025 Jul 15;20(7):e0328398. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0328398. 
eCollection 2025.

Correction: Association between long COVID and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
drug use by patients with acute-phase COVID-19: A nationwide Korea National 
Health Insurance Service cohort study.

PLOS One Staff.

Erratum for
    PLoS One. 2024 Nov 22;19(11):e0312530. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0312530.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0312530.].

Copyright: © 2025 The PLOS One Staff. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0328398
PMID: 40663544


96. Microb Genom. 2025 Jul;11(7). doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.001435.

Genomic epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 in Norfolk, UK, March 2020-December 2022.

Hayles EH(1)(2)(3), Page AJ(1)(4), Kingsley RA(1)(3)(5), Guitian J(6), The 
Covid-Genomics Uk Consortium, Langridge GC(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Quadram Institute Bioscience, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, UK.
(2)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research Park, 
Norwich, UK.
(3)Centre for Microbial Interactions, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, UK.
(4)Theiagen Genomics, 1745 Shea Center Drive, Highlands Ranch, Co, USA.
(5)School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research 
Park, Norwich, UK.
(6)Department of Pathobiology and Population Sciences, The Royal Veterinary 
College, London, UK.

In the UK, the COVID-19 Genomics UK Consortium (COG-UK) established a real-time 
national genomic surveillance system during the COVID-19 pandemic, producing 
centralized data for monitoring severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
(SARS-CoV-2). As a COG-UK partner, Quadram Institute Bioscience in Norfolk 
sequenced over 87,000 SARS-CoV-2 genomes as part of the national effort, 
contributing to the region becoming densely sequenced. Retrospective analysis of 
SARS-CoV-2 lineage dynamics in this region may contribute to preparedness for 
future pandemics. In total, 29,406 SARS-CoV-2 whole genome sequences and 
corresponding metadata from Norfolk were extracted from the COG-UK dataset, 
sampled between March 2020 and December 2022, representing 9.9% of regional 
COVID-19 cases. Sequences were lineage typed using Pangolin, with subsequent 
lineage analysis carried out in R using RStudio and related packages, including 
graphical analysis using ggplot2. In total, 401 global lineages were identified, 
with 69.8% appearing more than once and 31.2% over ten times. Temporal 
clustering identified six lineage communities based on first lineage emergence. 
Alpha, Delta and Omicron variants of concern (VOCs) accounted for 8.6, 34.9 and 
48.5% of sequences, respectively. These formed four regional epidemic waves 
alongside the remaining lineages which were observed in the early pandemic prior 
to VOC designation and were termed 'pre-VOC' lineages. Regional comparison 
highlighted variability in VOC epidemic wave dates dependent on location. This 
study is the first to assess SARS-CoV-2 diversity in Norfolk across a large 
timescale within the COVID-19 pandemic. SARS-CoV-2 was both highly diverse and 
dynamic throughout the Norfolk region between March 2020 and December 2022, with 
a strong VOC presence within the latter two-thirds of the study period. The 
study also displays the utility of incorporating genomic epidemiological methods 
into pandemic response.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.001435
PMID: 40663468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Microb Genom. 2025 Jul;11(7):001451. doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.001451.

'Vivaldi': an amplicon-based whole-genome sequencing method for the four 
seasonal human coronaviruses, 229E, NL63, OC43 and HKU1, alongside SARS-CoV-2.

McClure CP(1)(2)(3), Tsoleridis T(1)(2)(4), Hill JD(1)(2), Holmes N(2)(5), 
Chappell JG(1)(2), Byaruhanga T(1)(2), Duncan J(1)(2), Tofan M(2), Berry L(6), 
Clark G(6), Irving WL(1)(2)(3)(6), Tarr AW(1)(2)(3), Ball JK(1)(2)(3)(7), 
Astbury S(3)(8), Loose M(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Wolfson Centre for Global Virus Research, University of Nottingham, 
Nottingham, UK.
(2)School of Life Sciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(3)National Institute for Health Research Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre, 
University of Nottingham and Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, 
Nottingham, UK.
(4)The Pirbright Institute, Ash Road, Pirbright, Woking, UK.
(5)Deep Seq, School of Life Sciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(6)Clinical Microbiology, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham, 
UK.
(7)Dept of Tropical Disease Biology, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, 
Liverpool, UK.
(8)Nottingham Digestive Diseases Centre, Translational Medical Sciences, School 
of Medicine, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.

Prior to the emergence of SARS-CoV-2 in 2019, alphacoronaviruses 229E and NL63 
and betacoronaviruses OC43 and HKU1 were already established endemic 'common 
cold' viral infections. Despite their collective contribution towards global 
respiratory morbidity and mortality and potential to inform the future 
trajectory of SARS-CoV-2 endemicity, they are infrequently sequenced. We 
therefore developed a 1,200 bp amplicon whole-genome sequencing scheme targeting 
all four seasonal coronaviruses and SARS-CoV-2. The 'Vivaldi' method was applied 
retrospectively and prospectively using Oxford Nanopore Technology to ~400 
seasonal coronavirus infections diagnosed in Nottingham, UK, from February 2016 
to July 2023. We demonstrate that the amplicon multiplex strategy can be applied 
agnostically to determine the complete genomes of five different species from 
two coronaviral genera. Three hundred and four unique seasonal coronavirus 
genomes of greater than 95% coverage were achieved: 64 for 229E, 85 for NL63, 
128 for OC43 and 27 for HKU1. They collectively indicated a dynamic seasonal 
coronavirus genomic landscape, with co-circulation of multiple variants emerging 
and declining over the UK winter respiratory infection season, with further 
geographical distinction when compared to a global dataset. Prolonged infection 
with concomitant intra-host evolution was also observed for both alpha- (NL63) 
and betacoronaviruses (OC43). This data represents the largest single cohort of 
seasonal coronavirus genomes to date and also a novel amplicon scheme for their 
future global surveillance suitable for widespread and easy adoption in the 
post-SARS-CoV-2 era of viral genomics.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.001451
PMCID: PMC12263288
PMID: 40663464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


98. Ceska Gynekol. 2025;90(3):189-193. doi: 10.48095/cccg2025189.

Analysing risk factors for foetal growth outcomes - the influence of maternal 
conditions and congenital cytomegalovirus infection.

[Article in English]

Mandžáková M, Záhumenský J, Vajdová E, Matušíková Z, Rosoľanková M, Papcun P.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to analyse the risk factors differentiating small 
for gestational age (SGA) and appropriate for gestational age (AGA) neonates.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective-prospective cohort study was conducted 
from 2019 to 2024 at the 2nd Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 
University Hospital Bratislava. The study involved 174 term neonates from 
singleton pregnancies, including 125 SGA and 49 AGA infants. Various maternal, 
foetal, and placental risk factors were analysed, with a particular focus on 
congenital cytomegalovirus infection (cCMV).
RESULTS: Neonates' birth weights ranged from 1,480 to 4,470 grams. Of the risk 
factors assessed, only maternal COVID-19 infection during pregnancy was 
significantly associated with AGA outcomes (P = 0.009). No significant 
associations were found between common risk factors (e. g. hypertension, 
diabetes mellitus) and foetal growth restriction. Congenital CMV infection was 
not significantly associated with SGA. Logistic regression analysis confirmed 
the association of COVID-19 infection with foetal weight, while no significant 
effect was observed for CMV.
CONCLUSION: Maternal COVID-19 infection was associated with AGA outcomes, 
potentially due to enhanced medical surveillance and immune responses. However, 
the study's small sample size limits the interpretation of these findings, and 
further research is required to fully understand the impacts of COVID-19 on 
pregnancy. No significant association between congenital CMV infection and 
foetal growth restriction was found in this cohort, which was most likely due to 
the low prevalence of cCMV. Moreover, documented risk factors for foetal growth 
restriction, including hypertension and diabetes mellitus, were not 
statistically significant in our study population.

DOI: 10.48095/cccg2025189
PMID: 40663445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Jul 1;8(7):e2520673. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.20673.

Cases, Hospitalization, and Mortality in COVID-19 and Influenza Among Veterans 
in 2022-2025 Influenza Seasons.

Xie Y(1), Wang N(1), Choi T(1), Al-Aly Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Center, VA Saint Louis Health Care System, Saint Louis, 
Missouri.

Plain Language Summary: This cohort study examines rates of positive tests, 
hospitalizations, and deaths for COVID-19 and influenza across the influenza 
seasons of 2022 to 2023, 2023 to 2024, and 2024 to 2025 among US veterans.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.20673
PMID: 40663354


100. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Jul 1;8(7):e2521009. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.21009.

Pediatric COVID-19 Hospitalization Trends by Race and Ethnicity, 2020-2023.

Anglin O(1), Patel K(1), Daily Kirley P(2), Sachdev D(3), Alden NB(4), Armistead 
I(4), Yousey-Hindes K(5), Meek J(5), Witt LS(6)(7), Openo KP(6)(7)(8), Monroe 
ML(9), Kim S(10), Urlaub E(10), Como-Sabetti K(11), D'Heilly P(11), Ropp SL(12), 
Eisenberg N(13), Rowlands JV(14), Barney G(14), Bushey S(15), St George K(15), 
Sutton M(16), Abdullah N(16), Schaffner W(17), Talbot HK(17), Chatelain R(18), 
Price A(18), King H(1), Taylor CA(1), Patton ME(1)(19), Havers FP(1)(19).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia.
(2)California Emerging Infections Program, Oakland.
(3)California Department of Public Health, Richmond.
(4)Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment, Denver.
(5)Connecticut Emerging Infections Program, Yale School of Public Health, New 
Haven.
(6)Division of Infectious Diseases, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, Georgia.
(7)Georgia Emerging Infections Program, Georgia Department of Public Health, 
Atlanta.
(8)Research, Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, Georgia.
(9)Maryland Department of Health, Baltimore.
(10)Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, Lansing.
(11)Minnesota Department of Health, St Paul.
(12)New Mexico Department of Health, Santa Fe.
(13)University of New Mexico Emerging Infections Program, Albuquerque.
(14)New York State Department of Health, Albany.
(15)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, New 
York.
(16)Public Health Division, Oregon Health Authority, Portland.
(17)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(18)Salt Lake County Health Department, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(19)United States Public Health Service, Rockville, Maryland.

IMPORTANCE: Examining racial and ethnic disparities in pediatric COVID-19 
hospitalizations is critical to inform public health efforts to reduce those 
disparities.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize trends in pediatric COVID-19 hospitalizations by race 
and ethnicity from March 2020 to September 2023, focusing on recent 
epidemiologic findings (October 2022 to September 2023).
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cross-sectional study used data from the 
COVID-19 Hospitalization Surveillance Network (COVID-NET) including 13 555 
hospitalizations among patients aged 17 years or younger with a 
laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection who are residents of the COVID-NET 
catchment area in 12 states, covering approximately 10% of the US population.
EXPOSURE: Laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection within 14 days prior to or 
during hospitalization.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Pediatric COVID-19-associated hospitalization rates 
by race and ethnicity and characteristics associated with COVID-19-associated 
hospitalizations.
RESULTS: Between March 2020 and September 2023, COVID-NET identified 13 555 
pediatric hospitalizations (median patient age, 3.3 years [IQR, 0.6-12.5 years]; 
7110 boys [52.5%]; 780 non-Hispanic Asian or Pacific Islander children [5.8%], 
3837 non-Hispanic Black children [28.3%], 4131 Hispanic children [30.5%], and 
4807 non-Hispanic White children [35.5%]). Hospitalization rates were 2.15 (95% 
CI, 2.01-2.34) times higher for Black children and 2.06 (95% CI, 1.91-2.23) 
times higher for Hispanic children compared with Asian or Pacific Islander 
children, who had the lowest rates. Despite overall decreased pediatric 
hospitalization rates between October 2022 and September 2023, higher rates of 
intensive care unit admissions among Black and Hispanic children persisted, at 
1.88 (95% CI, 1.28-2.74) times higher for Black children and 2.13 (95% CI, 
1.47-3.10) times higher for Hispanic children compared with Asian or Pacific 
Islander children. Among hospitalized children, 61.4% (95% CI, 57.0%-65.8%) of 
Black patients and 45.5% (95% CI, 41.9%-49.3%) of Hispanic patients had 1 or 
more underlying medical condition compared with 45.6% (95% CI, 42.1%-49.1%) of 
White children and 45.0% (95% CI, 41.9%-49.3%) of Asian or Pacific Islander 
children. Obesity (17.8%; 95% CI, 15.3%-20.5%) and neurologic disorders (15.2%; 
95% CI, 13.7%-16.8%) were the most common conditions overall; 11.9% (95% CI, 
9.1%-15.1%) of Black children had sickle cell disease, the fourth most common 
condition in this group.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This study found that among pediatric patients 
hospitalized with COVID-19, Black and Hispanic children were disproportionately 
more likely to be hospitalized for COVID-19 and experience severe disease 
compared with White and Asian or Pacific Islander children. A higher proportion 
of hospitalized Black children had underlying medical conditions. This study 
underlines the need for targeted interventions, particularly for children with 
underlying medical conditions, and the need for equitable access and use of 
vaccines and therapeutics for disproportionately affected populations.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.21009
PMID: 40663351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]