1. Am J Cancer Res. 2025 Jun 15;15(6):2482-2499. doi: 10.62347/MHSV3723. 
eCollection 2025.

Machine learning-based prediction of disease-free survival in breast cancer 
patients with non-pathological complete response after neoadjuvant chemotherapy: 
a retrospective multicenter cohort study.

Zhang ZR(1), Wang CX(1), Wang H(1), Jin SL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Diseases, Jiaxing Women and Children's Hospital, Wenzhou 
Medical University Jiaxing 314000, Zhejiang, P. R. China.

This study aimed to construct a robust machine learning (ML) model for 
predicting the disease-free survival (DFS) and risk stratification of breast 
cancer (BC) patients with non-pathological complete response (non-PCR) after 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC). The model will facilitate the initiation of 
early interventions for high-risk patients. This retrospective multicenter 
cohort study included BC patients from two hospitals in China who received NAC 
but did not achieve PCR. Four ML algorithms were utilized to construct models 
based on patients' clinicopathological data, followed by a performance 
evaluation of these models. To improve the interpretability of the model, the 
shapley additive explanation (SHAP) method was employed to analyze the 
contribution of each feature to the predictive outcomes. A total of 463 non-PCR 
patients were included in the study. Of these, 385 patients were from Ruijin 
Hospital, affiliated with Shanghai Jiao Tong University, and were randomly split 
into a training cohort and an internal validation cohort in a 3:1 ratio for 
model development and preliminary performance evaluation. In addition, 78 
patients enrolled from Jiaxing Women and Children's Hospital were assigned to 
the external validation cohort to evaluate the model's generalizability. 
Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses demonstrated that age, 
residual tumor size, Ki67 change, molecular subtype, and axillary lymph node 
metastasis were independent factors influencing DFS. Among the four ML models, 
the random survival forest (RSF) model showed the best performance, with a 
concordance index of 0.820 in the training cohort, 0.642 in the internal 
validation cohort, and 0.689 in the external validation cohort. Further analysis 
revealed that the RSF model had excellent discriminative ability with a high 
area under curve value, while its low Brier score indicated excellent 
calibration. Decision curve analysis indicated that the RSF model offered a 
higher clinical net benefit at various time points and effectively stratified 
risk, successfully identifying high-risk patients. SHAP analysis underscored 
residual tumor size as the most influential predictive feature. The RSF model 
can effectively predict DFS and risk of BC patients with non-PCR following NAC, 
offering a critical reference for developing individualized treatment 
strategies.

AJCR Copyright © 2025.

DOI: 10.62347/MHSV3723
PMCID: PMC12256414
PMID: 40667551

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


2. Am J Cancer Res. 2025 Jun 25;15(6):2905-2907. doi: 10.62347/RFQT4858. 
eCollection 2025.

Erratum: Baicalein suppress EMT of breast cancer by mediating tumor-associated 
macrophages polarization.

Zhao X(1), Qu J(2), Liu X(2), Wang J(2), Ma X(1), Zhao X(1), Yang Q(1), Yan 
W(1), Zhao Z(1), Hui Y(3), Bai H(4), Zhang S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University 157 West Fifth Street, Xi'an 710004, Shaanxi, P. R. China.
(2)The Second Department of Thoracic Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Xi'an Jiaotong University 277 West Yanta Road, Xi'an 710061, Shaanxi, P. R. 
China.
(3)Institute of Traditional Chinese medicine, Hunan University of Chinese 
Medicine 300 Xueshi Street, Changsha 410208, Hunan, P. R. China.
(4)Department of Blood, The Chengdu Military Command General Hospital of Kunming 
Medical University 212 West Daguan Road, Kunming 650032, Yunnan, P. R. China.

Erratum for
    Am J Cancer Res. 2018 Aug 01;8(8):1528-1540.

[This corrects the article on p. 1528 in vol. 8, PMID: 30210921.].

AJCR Copyright © 2025.

DOI: 10.62347/RFQT4858
PMCID: PMC12256409
PMID: 40667549


3. Am J Cancer Res. 2025 Jun 25;15(6):2807-2825. doi: 10.62347/OXPE5390. 
eCollection 2025.

ESRP1 drives subtype-specific breast cancer progression through ER-regulated 
transcriptional programs and EMT-related splicing switch.

Wang X(1)(2), Song S(2), Lin W(3), Huang J(2)(4), Zhong W(2)(4), Li D(2)(4), Huo 
C(2), Wang Y(3), Chen D(1), Zhang Z(5), Sun Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Center, The Affiliated Dongguan Songshan Lake Central Hospital, 
Guangdong Medical University Dongguan, Guangdong, The People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Department of Pathology, School of Basic Medicine, Guangdong Medical 
University Zhanjiang, Guangdong, The People's Republic of China.
(3)The First Clinical Medical College, Guangdong Medical University Zhanjiang, 
Guangdong, The People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Pathology, The Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical 
University Zhanjiang, Guangdong, The People's Republic of China.
(5)Department of Thyroid and Breast Surgery, Dongguan Songshan Lake Central 
Hospital, Guangdong Medical University Dongguan, Guangdong, The People's 
Republic of China.

Epithelial Splicing Regulatory Protein 1 (ESRP1), an epithelial splicing 
regulator, influences the invasiveness and metastasis of breast cancer cells, 
yet its prognostic significance and interaction with estrogen receptors are not 
fully understood. Our findings indicate that ESRP1 is significantly up-regulated 
in breast cancer tissues and correlates positively with adverse clinical 
outcomes, particularly in estrogen receptor (ER) positive breast cancer. In 
vitro experiments with cells demonstrated a dual regulatory mechanism: in 
ER-positive breast cancer cells, reduced expression of ESRP1 suppresses tumor 
cell proliferation but does not significantly affect tumor cell invasion and 
migration; conversely, in ER-negative breast cancer cells, ESRP1 hinders tumor 
progression by regulating the alternative splicing of epithelial-mesenchymal 
transition (EMT)-related genes. To investigate whether the presence of ER is a 
decisive factor in ESRP1's role, we treated ER-positive breast cancer cells with 
an ER inhibitor to induce EMT, followed by the knockdown of ESRP1, which further 
promoted the EMT process and enhanced the cells' invasive and migratory 
abilities. This study demonstrates that ESRP1 is a potential breast cancer 
prognostic marker with subtype specificity and its value as a molecular target 
needs to be accurately assessed in the context of breast cancer subtypes, as 
ESRP1 function may be highly dependent on the ER background.

AJCR Copyright © 2025.

DOI: 10.62347/OXPE5390
PMCID: PMC12256416
PMID: 40667548

Conflict of interest statement: None.


4. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 21:2025.06.16.659976. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.16.659976.

Super-resolution microscopy reveals distinct epigenetic states regulated by 
estrogen receptor activity.

Akhshi T, Hu SS, Wheeler E, Hellriegel C, Richardson DS, Cayting N, Mvula W, 
Ahmed B, Jeselsohn R, Zang C, Brown M.

Changes in gene expression regulated by ligand-dependent transcription factors 
such as estrogen receptor-α (ERα) involves the recruitment of coactivators 
including p300 that acetylates histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27ac). While H3K27ac 
marks active enhancers, the detailed chromatin architecture of enhancers remains 
unclear. Using super-resolution microscopy, we reveal distinct structural states 
of H3K27ac modified chromatin in response to ERα activation. In estradiol 
(E2)-treated cells, H3K27ac modified chromatin adopts open, elongated structures 
associated with active enhancers, while ERα inhibition induces compact, 
spherical H3K27ac modified chromatin conformations linked to repression. A 
constitutively active ERα mutation linked to endocrine therapy resistance in 
breast cancer maintains open chromatin states independent of ligand, suggesting 
sustained transcriptional activity. Our findings provide the first direct 
visualization of H3K27ac associated chromatin structural dynamics, challenging 
the assumption that H3K27ac modification alone is sufficient to lead to enhancer 
activation. By demonstrating that H3K27ac architecture is dynamically regulated 
by ERα, we establish a new paradigm for understanding epigenetic regulation and 
highlight potential therapeutic targets for endocrine therapy resistant cancers.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.16.659976
PMCID: PMC12262593
PMID: 40667328


5. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 27:2025.06.24.661365. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.24.661365.

Integrated Omics Approach to Delineate the Mechanisms of Doxorubicin-Induced 
Cardiotoxicity.

Dabour MS, Abdelgawad IY, Sadaf B, Daniel MR, Grant MKO, Blaes AH, Jacobson PA, 
Zordoky BN.

Doxorubicin (DOX) is an effective chemotherapy whose clinical utility is limited 
by cardiotoxicity. To investigate underlying mechanisms, we employed a 
multi-omics approach integrating transcriptomic and proteomic profiling 
leveraging established mouse models of chronic DOX- induced cardiotoxicity. 
Five-week-old male mice received weekly DOX (4 mg/kg) or saline injections for 
six weeks, with heart tissues harvested 4 days post-treatment. Differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) and proteins (DEPs) were identified by bulk RNA-seq and 
proteomics, validated via qPCR and western blot, respectively Key DEPs were 
validated in plasma samples from DOX-treated breast cancer patients. 
Additionally, a temporal comparison was conducted between DEPs in the mice 
hearts 4 days and 6 weeks post-DOX. RNA-seq revealed upregulation of 
stress-responsive genes ( Phlda3, Trp53inp1 ) and circadian regulators ( Nr1d1 
), with downregulation of Apelin and Cd74 . Proteomics identified upregulation 
of serpina3n, thrombospondin-1, and epoxide hydrolase 1. Plasma SERPINA3 
concentrations were significantly elevated in breast cancer patients 24 hours 
post-DOX. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) revealed upregulated pathways 
including p53 signaling, apoptosis, and unfolded protein response. Integrated 
omics analysis revealed 2,089 gene-protein pairs. GSEA of concordant 
gene-protein pairs implicated p53 signaling, apoptosis, and 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition in upregulated pathways, while oxidative 
phosphorylation and metabolic pathways were downregulated. Temporal comparison 
with a delayed timepoint (6 weeks post-DOX) uncovered dynamic remodeling of 
cardiac signaling, with early response dominated by inflammatory and apoptotic 
responses, and delayed response marked by cell cycle and DNA repair pathway 
activation. This integrated-omics study reveals key molecular pathways and 
temporal changes in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity, identifying potential biomarkers 
for future cardioprotective strategies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.24.661365
PMCID: PMC12262653
PMID: 40667227


6. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 22:2025.06.20.660633. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.20.660633.

CDH1 loss remodels gene expression and lineage identity in human mammary 
epithelial cells.

Musick M, Ufondu CA, Rowland CE, Sottnik JL, Shackleford MT, Nesiba CS, 
Ostrander JH, Sikora MJ.

Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is a common subtype of breast cancer that is 
defined in part by genetic loss of CDH1 caused by mutation or deletion, leading 
to loss of cell adhesion protein E-cadherin in >90% of ILC. Genetic loss of CDH1 
is an early event in ILC oncogenesis, yet the mechanisms by which CDH1/ 
E-cadherin acts as a tumor suppressor are not well understood. To study how 
early CDH1 loss drives ILC oncogenesis, we used a series of non-transformed 
human mammary epithelial cell (HMEC) models to target CDH1 /E-cadherin, 
inhibiting extracellular E-cadherin signaling using antibodies versus modeling 
genetic CDH1 loss using siRNA or knockout via CRISPR/Cas9. Through transcriptome 
analyses across four HMEC models, we found that the mode of E-cadherin loss or 
suppression is critical for the subsequent phenotype. Antibody-mediated 
inhibition of cell-cell contacts induced gene signatures of 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), consistent with the role of E-cadherin 
suppression during the EMT process. Conversely, genetic CDH1 loss - as in ILC 
oncogenesis - repressed EMT signatures, and instead remodeled gene expression 
toward a luminal epithelial phenotype. Using single cell transcriptomics and 
flow cytometry analyses of cell lineage markers, we found that genetic loss of 
CDH1 reprogrammed cells to a luminal progenitor-like phenotype. By isolating 
luminal versus basal cells prior to CDH1 knockout, we found that CDH1 loss led 
to remodeling of lineage identity in both populations, converging on a new 
lineage homeostasis with a luminal progenitor-like phenotype. Consistent with 
increased progenitor features, CDH1 loss enhanced proliferative capacity over 
the finite lifespan of the HMECs, highlighting a feature of early CDH1 loss that 
may contribute to clonal advantage during tumor initiation. Our findings support 
that inhibition of E-cadherin results in different transcriptional response 
compared to CDH1 loss, with the latter driving a transcriptional and phenotypic 
state characteristic of a luminal progenitor-like population, which offers new 
insight into early events in ILC oncogenesis.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.20.660633
PMCID: PMC12262285
PMID: 40667170


7. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 27:2025.06.24.661139. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.24.661139.

A microfluidic gradient and parallel-track system uncovers spatial control of 
endocytosis and adhesion formation in breast cancer cell migration.

Chan ET, Jones TH, Thompson CM, Kannan H, D'Souza MW, Ali MM, Kural C, Song JW.

Cell migration through confined spaces is a critical step in cancer metastasis, 
yet the spatial regulation of endocytosis and adhesion dynamics during this 
process remains poorly understood. To address this, we developed a microfluidic 
platform that generates stable, spatially linear biochemical gradients across 5 
μm-tall migration channels while limiting confounding flow-induced shear stress 
(<0.05 dyn/cm 2 ). COMSOL simulations and optical calibration using FITC-dextran 
confirmed that gradients form reliably within 5 minutes. The microdevice also 
supports long-term live imaging and is compatible with both spinning disk 
confocal and total internal reflection fluorescence structured illumination 
microscopy modalities, enabling high-resolution visualization of adhesion and 
endocytic structures. Localized application of the endocytic inhibitor Dyngo-4a 
to the front or rear of migrating cells revealed that front-targeted inhibition 
significantly increased the enrichment of paxillin and the clathrin adaptor AP-2 
at the leading edge, whereas rear-targeted inhibition completely abolished their 
front-rear asymmetry. These changes were accompanied by enhanced migration speed 
and persistence, particularly under front-targeted inhibition. Together, these 
findings highlight the critical role of spatially coordinated endocytosis in 
sustaining polarized adhesion and persistent cell movement. Our platform offers 
a powerful tool for dissecting subcellular mechanisms of migration under 
confinement and provides a broadly applicable framework for probing spatially 
localized signaling in engineered microenvironments.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.24.661139
PMCID: PMC12262507
PMID: 40667112


8. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 16:2025.06.11.658997. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.11.658997.

Anthracyclines induce global changes in cardiomyocyte chromatin accessibility 
that overlap with cardiovascular disease loci.

Matthews ER, Abodunrin RO, Hurley JD, Gutiérrez JA, Ward MC.

Breast cancer drugs including anthracyclines (ACs) and Trastuzumab increase the 
risk for cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) such as atrial fibrillation (AF) and 
heart failure (HF) that ultimately affect the heart muscle. These CVDs are 
associated with hundreds of genetic variants in non- coding regions of the 
genome. However, how these drugs affect the regulatory potential of the 
non-coding genome of the heart and CVD risk loci is unknown. We therefore 
measured global chromatin accessibility across iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes from 
four individuals treated with the ACs, Doxorubicin, Epirubicin, and 
Daunorubicin, a related non-AC, Mitoxantrone, and the monoclonal antibody 
Trastuzumab, or a vehicle control for three and 24 hours. We identified 155,557 
high-confidence regions of open chromatin across 48 samples where the major 
sources of variation are associated with drug type and time. Jointly modeling 
the data revealed three accessibility response signatures denoted as 
early-acute, early-sustained, and late that correspond to 67,329 regions that 
open or close in response to drug treatment. Sequences associated with 
drug-induced chromatin opening contain motifs for DNA damage-associated 
transcription factors including p53 and ZBTB14, and associate with increases in 
active histone acetylation and gene expression. 21 AF- and HF-associated SNPs 
directly overlap with regions associated with drug-induced opening. A shared 
intronic HF and AF SNP, rs3176326, that is also an eQTL for CDKN1A in heart 
tissue, associates with increased chromatin accessibility, histone acetylation, 
and CDKN1A expression in response to all ACs. Our results demonstrate 
large-scale changes in chromatin accessibility in cardiomyocytes treated with 
ACs, which correspond to several regions harboring CVD risk loci.
AUTHOR SUMMARY: Anthracyclines are a widely used class of breast cancer drugs 
that are linked to cardiac toxicity and the development of heart disease in some 
women. There are hundreds of genetic variants that associate with risk for heart 
disease; however their role and mechanism of action in drug- induced toxicity is 
unclear given that most reside in the non-coding genome. We therefore tested the 
effects of five breast cancer drugs on genome-wide chromatin accessibility using 
induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes. We found tens of thousands 
of chromatin regions that change in accessibility after drug treatment. Regions 
with increased accessibility contain sequences that have been shown to bind DNA 
damage-associated transcription factors, and associate with increases in nearby 
gene expression. We find 21 heart disease-associated genetic variants in regions 
that increase in chromatin accessibility following treatment. This suggests that 
cancer drugs have large effects on the non-coding genome of heart cells 
including at regions associated with heart disease. This research contributes to 
our understanding of how genetic variants associated with disease exert their 
effects.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.11.658997
PMCID: PMC12262270
PMID: 40667102


9. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 24:2025.06.18.660428. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.18.660428.

Soluble E-cadherin Drives Brain Metastasis in Inflammatory Breast Cancer.

Hu X, Xiong Y, Villodre ES, Zhang H, Song J, Fowlkes N, Krishnamurthy S, 
Rylander M, Bartholomeusz C, Tripathy D; MDACC Inflammatory Breast Cancer Team; 
Woodward WA, Chen J, Debeb BG.

The brain is a common site of relapse in inflammatory breast cancer (IBC), an 
E-cadherin positive, aggressive form of breast cancer. We found that elevated 
serum levels of soluble E-cadherin (sEcad), an 80-kDa fragment of E-cadherin, in 
patients with metastatic IBC correlated with poorer outcomes and increased rates 
of brain metastases. In our effort to understand the underlying mechanism, we 
discovered that sEcad binds to XIAP, an inhibitor of cell death, activating the 
pro-survival NF-kβ signaling in tumor cells. We also discovered that sEcad 
affects the tumor cell microenvironment by enhancing cancer cell adhesion to 
endothelial cells and inducing reactive astrocytosis in the brain. In addition, 
we found that sEcad-mediated reactive astrocytosis relies on the 
CXCL1/CXCL8-CXCR2 axis and treatment with a brain-permeable CXCR2 antagonist 
reduced brain metastatic burden and prolonged survival. These findings implicate 
sEcad in brain metastasis and provide new insights into potential therapeutic 
targets for IBC.
HIGHLIGHTS: High serum sEcad levels correlate clinically with poor survival 
outcomes and development of brain metastasissEcad drives IBC brain metastasis 
growth in mouse modelssEcad binds XIAP to activate NFkB and promote anoikis 
resistance and invasion of IBC cells sEcad activates reactive astrocytes and 
induces CXCR2 expression on tumor cells in vitro and in vivo CXCR2-IN-1, a 
brain-permeable CXCR2 antagonist, reduces metastasis and improves survival in 
IBC brain metastasis models.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.18.660428
PMCID: PMC12262226
PMID: 40667060


10. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 24:2025.06.23.661091. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.661091.

Exosomes are specialized vehicles to induce fibronectin assembly.

Sung BH, Emmanuel M, Gari MK, Guerrero JF, Virumbrales-Muñoz M, Inman D, 
Krystofiak E, Rapraeger AC, Ponik SM, Weaver AM.

Fibronectin is a key stromal matrix molecule whose assembly into fibrils is 
thought to require cells. In contrast, we find that small exosome-type 
extracellular vesicles (EVs) are critical initiators of fibronectin assembly. 
Fibroblasts engineered to be deficient in exosome secretion showed greatly 
reduced assembly of fibronectin and other stromal matrix molecules in 2D, 3D, 
and in vivo environments, and led to reduced tumor growth and lung metastasis by 
breast cancer cells. Furthermore, transgenic mice with defects in exosome 
secretion had greatly reduced lung fibrosis after treatment with bleomycin. In a 
direct test of exosome function, we find that the addition of purified small EVs 
to purified soluble fibronectin in a cell-free system is sufficient to induce 
fibronectin assembly. The EV-induced fibronectin assembly requires the presence 
of fibronectin-binding integrins and Syndecan-1 in the EVs. We propose a new 
model in which secreted exosomes directly drive stromal matrix assembly and 
tissue fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.661091
PMCID: PMC12262568
PMID: 40667058


11. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 27:2025.06.26.661878. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.26.661878.

Radiosensitizers in Cancer Therapy: A Global Bibliometric Analysis.

Annagiri S, Harary PM, Hori YS, Lam FC, AbuReesh D, Tayag A, Ustrzynski L, 
Emrich SC, Chang SD, Park DJ.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Radiosensitizers are compounds given concurrently with 
radiotherapy to enhance the killing of cancer cells while sparing healthy 
tissue. Radiosensitization research has involved a diverse range of therapeutic 
agents. In the present study, we aimed to investigate international trends in 
the development of radiosensitizers across the most common cancer types.
METHODS: A bibliometric analysis was performed of the field of radiosensitizer 
research from 1956 to 2024. Individual author impacts and trends, collaborations 
between and productivity of countries, and themes/keywords were analyzed.
RESULTS: Our search yielded 12,690 results. The most highly represented 
countries were the United States of America, China, and Germany. Radiosensitizer 
studies for breast cancers demonstrated the highest rate of annual growth in 
record count by comparison with other cancer types, while publications for 
gynecological cancers showed the slowest growth. The most common 
radiosensitizers investigated included ATM kinase inhibitors, chemotherapies, 
gold nanoparticles, mTOR inhibitors, natural compounds such as caffeine or 
curcumin, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors.
CONCLUSIONS: The United States, Germany, and China were the most productive 
countries during the study period, with China demonstrating the greatest 
increase in annual publication rate. Additionally, pre-clinical studies 
primarily investigated gold particles and targeted therapies. By comparison, 
clinical studies focused on radiosensitizing chemotherapies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.26.661878
PMCID: PMC12262306
PMID: 40667051


12. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 17:2025.06.11.659108. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.11.659108.

Modeling the role of urokinase plasminogen activator, uPA, and circulating 
Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts (cCAFS) in breast cancer cell extravasation.

Spartz A, Schmidt S, Mohamed F, Troness B, Lange CA, El-Ashry D.

Circulating Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts (cCAFs) have been discovered in 
circulating tumor cell clusters from all stages of disease progression in breast 
cancer patients. We have shown that CAFs promote lung metastases in the mouse 
tail vein model when they are clustered with triple negative breast cancer 
(TNBC) MDA-MB231 cells. Following on this observation, we saw that 
MDA-MB231-luciferase labeled cells persist at higher levels when present in 
CAF23/MDA-MB231 co-clusters compared to MDA-MB231 mono-clusters within the first 
3 days after tail vein injection. This prompted us to investigate whether CAFs 
aid cancer cell extravasation from capillary venules into the lung parenchyma, 
which would impart better survival and faster seeding of metastases. Ex vivo 
lung extravasation assays showed that within the first 8-24 hrs after tail vein 
injection, more cells from CAF23/MDA-MB231 co-clusters extravasated than cells 
from MDA-MB231 mono-clusters. Using in vitro endothelial binding assays, we 
determined that CAF/TNBC co-clusters bind to HUVEC endothelial cells better than 
TNBC mono-clusters. Single Cell RNA-seq identified several genes in the 
fibrinolysis pathway whose expression increases in TNBC cells when they are 
clustered with CAFs. One of these genes is PLAU , which encodes the 
urokinase-type plasminogen activator, uPA. siRNA knockdown of PLAU decreased in 
vitro TNBC-endothelial cell interactions and ex vivo extravasation of MDA-MB231 
mono-clusters, revealing a role for uPA/PLAU in breast cancer cell 
extravasation. Our data helps to define the role of CAFs in breast cancer 
extravasation and highlights the importance of our previous work showing that 
CAFs promote tumor cell dissemination and metastasis.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.11.659108
PMCID: PMC12262346
PMID: 40667030


13. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 26:2025.06.24.661170. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.24.661170.

Paclitaxel-induced mitotic arrest results in a convergence of apoptotic 
dependencies that can be safely exploited by BCL-X (L) degradation to overcome 
cancer chemoresistance.

Qin X, Presser A, Johnson L, Matoba Y, Shay BS, Xu W, Choiniere J, Fraser C, 
Garbicz F, Spetz J, Yu S, Florido MHC, Picucci F, Yang Y, Drapkin R, Carrasco R, 
Hill SJ, Liu J, Matulonis U, Brugge J, Rueda BR, Zhou D, Stover EH, Sarosiek KA.

Paclitaxel and other microtubule-targeting agents are cornerstone therapies for 
diverse cancers, including lung, breast, cervical, pancreatic, and ovarian 
malignancies. Paclitaxel induces tumor cell apoptosis during mitosis by 
disrupting microtubule dynamics required for chromosome segregation. However, 
despite initial responsiveness, many tumors develop resistance, limiting 
therapeutic durability. Here, we used high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma 
(HGSOC), the most common and lethal subtype of ovarian cancer, as a model to 
dissect the mechanisms underlying this resistance. We find that 
paclitaxel-induced mitotic arrest triggers degradation of the pro-survival 
protein MCL-1 and upregulation of BCL-XL, followed by inactivating 
phosphorylation of BCL-XL at Ser62 to promote apoptosis. In resistant cells, 
this MCL-1 downregulation is insufficient to commit cells to apoptosis but 
instead results in a transient convergence of apoptotic dependencies by forcing 
BCL-X L to sequester the pro-apoptotic proteins BIM, BAX, and BAK. During this 
state, BCL-XL inhibition induces synergistic apoptosis, even in chemoresistant 
cells. Surprisingly, we also discover that loss of substrate attachment 
recapitulates this apoptotic convergence both in vitro and in vivo, with HGSOC 
cells growing in metastasis-promoting malignant ascites displaying heightened 
apoptotic priming and dependence on BCL-XL relative to solid tumors. In HGSOC 
xenografts, targeted degradation of BCL-XL using the platelet-sparing 
proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC) DT2216 matches the efficacy of paclitaxel 
monotherapy while avoiding the chronic thrombocytopenia induced by BCL-XL 
inhibitors such as navitoclax (ABT-263). Strikingly, combination therapy 
leveraging the synergy between paclitaxel and DT2216 leads to complete 
eradication of HGSOC cell line and patient-derived xenografts. Moreover, DT2216 
treatment blunts the rapid apoptotic adaptation caused by other BCL-X L 
inhibitors, indicating that targeted degradation of pro-survival proteins may 
yield more durable responses than inhibition alone. These findings uncover a 
mechanistic framework for safely exploiting the apoptotic dependency convergence 
caused by mitotic arrest and substrate detachment and support the clinical 
development of BCL-XL-targeting PROTACs to overcome chemoresistance in ovarian 
cancer and other solid tumors.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.24.661170
PMCID: PMC12262480
PMID: 40666988


14. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 25:2025.06.20.660786. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.20.660786.

Transient chromatin decompaction by histone deacetylation inhibition 
preferentially radiosensitizes cancerous breast epithelial cells at lower 
radiation doses.

Li H, Maben C, Pal D, Davern S, McCord RP.

Radiation therapy plays a prominent role in breast cancer treatment, but the 
high doses of radiation damage both healthy and cancerous cells. Therefore, 
additional research is needed into combination therapies that could 
preferentially radiosensitize cancer cells compared to surrounding healthy 
tissue without causing deleterious side effects. Histone deacetylase inhibitor 
drugs (HDACis) have been tested as radiosensitizers in both basic research and 
clinical trials, but the long exposure usually used in these treatments and lack 
of examination of effects on matched healthy cells leave aspects of their 
mechanism of action unclear. Here, we show that transient (2 hour) trichostatin 
A (TSA) treatment of cancerous and non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cell lines 
increases immediate DNA damage and decreases long-term cell survival in both 
cell types at high radiation doses. At an intermediate radiation dose (1 Gy), 
however, TSA treatment selectively radiosensitizes the cancer as compared to the 
non-cancer cell line. The radiosensitizing action of short-term TSA treatment, 
which by itself has no impact on cell viability, suggests that chromatin 
decompaction is an important part of the mechanism of radiosensitization by 
HDACis.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.20.660786
PMCID: PMC12262379
PMID: 40666972


15. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 23:2025.06.17.660224. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.17.660224.

Cerebellum metastasis model of HER2-positive breast cancer unveils key role of 
IL34-induced Arg1+ macrophages.

Cheng X, Patel KK, Zhou B, Fu Y, Cleary R, Highkin M, Hsia J, Jin X, Kohn B, 
Prior JL, Michie MS, Sun R, Van Swearingen AED, Quirk JD, Hagemann IS, Li T, 
Jain V, Gregory S, Kim A, Bose R.

Brain metastases occur in up to 40% of Stage IV breast cancer patients. The 
cerebellum is a frequent location for metastases in HER2-positive breast cancer 
patients, but the mechanisms for this are unknown. Here, we developed a 
syngeneic, immunocompetent mouse model for breast cancer brain metastases by 
stereotactically injecting mouse HER2-overexpressing breast cancer organoids 
into the cerebellum. Growth of these cerebellar metastases was monitored by MRI 
and trastuzumab optical imaging using a near-infrared fluorophore conjugated to 
trastuzumab. Spatial transcriptomics identified interleukin-34 production by 
breast cancer cells inducing ARG1+ macrophages at the invading edge of the 
metastasis. Treatment with a blocking antibody to interleukin-34's receptor, 
CSF1R, produced tumor shrinkage. These findings have immediate translation 
potential as a CSF1R-blocking antibody is FDA-approved. Further, it demonstrates 
that cancer-associated inflammation bordering the brain metastasis promotes 
metastatic growth and offers a molecularly targeted strategy to treat 
inflammation in brain metastasis.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.17.660224
PMCID: PMC12262262
PMID: 40666928


16. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 17:2025.06.11.659159. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.11.659159.

Sulindac modulates the response of triple negative breast cancer to anti-PD-L1 
immunotherapy.

Yi B, Ma R, Zhang X, Li L, Riker AI, Xi Y.

Teriple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a heterogeneous tumor, and there is a 
lack of effective therapies. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) therapy has 
been widely used to treat a variety of human cancers including TNBC. Despite the 
FDA's approval of therapies like Atezolizumab (anti- PD-L1) and Pembrolizumab 
(anti-PD-1) for certain TNBC cases, more than half of all TNBC patients, 
especially those with low PD-L1 levels and in advanced stages, remain 
unresponsive. Therefore, there is urgent clinical need to find other innovative 
combination therapy strategy for these TNBC patients. In this study, we examined 
the efficacy of sulindac to enhance the response of TNBC to anti-PD-L1 
immunotherapy. We utilized a 4T1 syngeneic mouse tumor model to compare the 
inhibitory effects of PD-L1 antibody, sulindac, and their combination on 4T1 
tumor growth. We found that mice treated with combination therapy showed a 
significant reduction in tumor volume, along with increased infiltration of 
activated T lymphocytes (Granzyme B+/CD8+ T cells) in the tumor tissues. We also 
established a PBMC humanized mouse model to further confirmed that combination 
therapy could significantly reduce the tumor size of TNBC patient-derived 
xenografts (56S) and the combination group were found to have the most 
infiltrating activated human T lymphocytes (Granzyme B+/CD8+ T cells) in the 
tumor tissues. Immunofluorescent staining of organoids also confirmed that 
organoids from combination group have more CD8+ T cell and the results of 
organoid cell viability assay in vitro indicated that combination of sulindac 
with PD-L1 antibody together with activated human PBMC significantly reduce 56S 
organoid cell viability, which is consistent with in vivo study. When 
investigating the mechanism of action, first we found sulindac could 
downregulate exosomal PD-L1 by decreasing expression of nsMase2 which is a major 
regulator in production of exosomal PD-L1. Second, we demonstrated that sulindac 
could downregulate PD-L1 by blocking Stat3 signaling and enhancing the 
expression of miR-570-3p which can potentially target PD-L1, which in turn led 
to a further decrease in exosomal PD-L1. Previous study showed that PD-L1 
antibody could be bound and consumed by exosomal PD-L1 in the blood circulation. 
Therefore, in combination therapy, sulindac downregulating exosomal PD-L1 leads 
to increased availability of PD-L1 Ab, which potentially improves the overall 
efficacy of anti-PD-L1 therapy. In conclusion, our findings provide unique 
insights into the mechanism of action and efficacy for sulindac as an 
immunomodulatory agent in combination with anti-PD-L1 therapy for the treatment 
of TNBC.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.11.659159
PMCID: PMC12262528
PMID: 40666926


17. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 16:2025.06.07.658373. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.07.658373.

Brain FGF2 and NCAM1 contribute to FGFR1-dependent progression of ER+ breast 
cancer brain metastases in young and aged hosts.

Fox MS, Jaramillo-Gómez JA, Marquez-Ortiz RA, Alvarez-Eraso KLF, 
Contreras-Zárate MJ, Koliavas S, Kabos P, Serkova NJ, Sartorius CA, Wellberg EA, 
Cittelly DM.

Estrogen receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer (BC) represents a significant 
proportion of BC brain metastasis (BCBM) but remains understudied. Here, we 
report that FGFR1-amplification, a well-established driver of ER+ BC endocrine 
resistance, promotes ER+ BCBM colonization in young and aged mice, through 
brain-dependent mechanisms. FGFR1-dependent brain colonization in young and aged 
mice occurs via canonical FGF2/FGFR1 signaling and non-canonical NCAM1/FGFR1 
interactions. Astrocytic FGF2-mediated paracrine activation of FGFR1 promoted 
BCBMs in estrogen-treated young mice, but FGF2 signaling decreased in the brain 
with aging and estrogen-depletion. Neuronal and glial NCAM1, which remain 
unchanged in young and aged brains, promoted adhesion to neurons and migration 
of ER+ BC cells, suggesting that interactions with astrocytes and neurons 
facilitate early ER+ BCBM colonization through FGFR1. Importantly, FDA-approved 
FGFR inhibitors effectively blocked early but not late metastatic progression 
only in young mice, suggesting limited efficacy of FGFR inhibitors to block 
non-kinase-dependent FGFR1 functions in vivo .

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.07.658373
PMCID: PMC12262655
PMID: 40666846


18. Health Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;8(7):e71062. doi: 10.1002/hsr2.71062. eCollection
 2025 Jul.

Assessment of ESR1, PGR, ERBB2, and MKI67 mRNA in Hormone Receptor-Positive 
Early Breast Cancer: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Rezvani H(1), Forghani S(2), Forghani A(2), Sabet FM(2), Akbari A(2), 
Tabarestani S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences Tehran Iran.
(2)Cancer Research Center Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences Tehran 
Iran.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Hormone receptors are expressed in 70% of breast cancers 
and are the major biomarkers for tailoring treatment in early-stage breast 
cancer. In clinical routine, immunohistochemistry (IHC) is used to assess 
estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), HER2, and Ki67 protein 
expression. However, IHC procedure is challenged with pre-analytical and 
analytical variability. Pathologist interpretation of IHC results can vary, and 
discordant results between local and reference laboratories have been reported. 
Using mRNA-based tests may be a more robust, reliable, and standardized method 
to assess these important breast cancer biomarkers. This study aimed to assess 
the concordance between real-time PCR and IHC results.
METHODS: In this study, we analyzed 178 early-stage hormone receptor-positive 
breast tumors. IHC for ER, PR, HER2, and Ki67 had been previously performed for 
the study samples at local laboratories. For samples with HER2 IHC score 2+, 
Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization was performed. ESR1 (encoding ER), PGR 
(encoding PR), ERBB2 (encoding HER2), and MKI67 (encoding Ki67) mRNA expression 
were determined using TaqMan gene expression assays.
RESULTS: The overall concordance between mRNA expression results and their 
corresponding IHC markers was 95.9% for ESR1/ER, 79.3% for PGR/PR, and 100% for 
ERBB2/HER2. There was a moderate correlation between MKi67 mRNA values and Ki67 
IHC. ESR1 expression was significantly lower in tumors of younger patients 
(p < 0.001). No statistically significant correlation between age at cancer 
diagnosis and ER IHC was identified. Higher ESR1 and MKI67 mRNA expression was 
associated with worse pathological characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: PCR-based classification of breast tumors in a central laboratory 
may be used to confirm the available IHC results performed at local laboratories 
and add valuable information for patient management. mRNA-based biomarkers may 
be promising for more standardized breast cancer management.

© 2025 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hsr2.71062
PMCID: PMC12261032
PMID: 40666735

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


19. APL Bioeng. 2025 Jul 14;9(3):036104. doi: 10.1063/5.0230800. eCollection 2025
 Sep.

Microwave-assisted immunostaining for rapid labeling of matrix-embedded 
multicellular structures.

Schilling KJ, Huynh KT, Speese S(1), Schutt CE.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Early Detection Advanced Research Center, Knight Cancer Institute, 
Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, Oregon 97201, USA.

Immunofluorescence staining of cell proteins is essential to understanding 
biomolecular interactions within three-dimensional (3D) hydrogel cell cultures. 
However, the scaffold material limits passive diffusion of antibodies through 
thick 3D matrices, prolonging staining and washing steps and resulting in 
processing times that can last for several days. Microwave irradiation has 
previously been shown to enhance penetration of fixatives in a variety of soft 
tissues by increasing the rate of diffusion through the sample, yet it is 
unknown if microwave irradiation can improve immunofluorescence staining of 
cells in 3D hydrogel cultures. Here, we demonstrate a microwave-assisted 
immunostaining technique that rapidly labels cells within spheroid structures 
embedded within thick intact hydrogels. These results show that 
collagen-embedded breast epithelial spheroids can be efficiently labeled with 
primary antibodies in less than 3.5 h. We show significantly enhanced staining 
and greater depth penetration with microwave-assisted staining compared to 
conventional benchtop staining methods. We demonstrate staining of 
collagen-embedded breast cancer spheroids with complete staining achieved in 
less than 2.5 h via the microwave, which outperforms conventional staining 
techniques. Moreover, we demonstrate enhanced staining of spheroids embedded in 
basement membrane-derived Matrigel matrices with the microwave method compared 
to benchtop techniques. Finally, we directly compare 2-h microwave-assisted 
staining to conventional 15-h longform benchtop staining and show that microwave 
staining increases depth penetration and intensity of stains compared to the 
longform staining. This work develops a microwave-assisted staining protocol 
that provides a rapid and reproducible method to label a variety of cell types 
within various 3D hydrogel cell culture systems.

© 2024 Author(s).

DOI: 10.1063/5.0230800
PMCID: PMC12263180
PMID: 40666708

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts to disclose.


20. Cureus. 2025 Jun 15;17(6):e86031. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86031. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

Paraneoplastic Amyopathic Dermatomyositis Associated With a Bone and Medullary 
Location of Breast Adenocarcinoma.

Haboub F(1), El Fadli M(2), Zouiten O(1), Afani L(1), Belbaraka R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire Mohammed VI, 
Marrakesh, MAR.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Cadi Ayyad University, Marrakesh, MAR.

Paraneoplastic amyopathic dermatomyositis (ADM) is a rare connective tissue 
disease presenting with characteristic dermatomyositis-like skin findings in the 
absence of muscle involvement. It is associated with malignancies in 15%-30% of 
cases and may portend a fatal outcome, especially when linked to advanced 
cancers. We report the case of a 58-year-old woman who presented with 
progressive low back pain and erythroderma. Imaging revealed diffuse bone 
metastases, and bone biopsy confirmed a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of 
breast origin (estrogen receptor, 60%; progesterone receptor, 35%; GATA3 
positive). Simultaneously, dermatological evaluation identified periungual 
erythema and other cutaneous findings consistent with ADM. The patient was 
started on endocrine therapy with palbociclib and letrozole, along with 
corticosteroids and hydroxychloroquine, resulting in partial clinical 
improvement. However, within six months of diagnosis, she developed severe 
COVID-19 pneumonia, complicated by pancytopenia and sepsis, and ultimately 
succumbed to multiorgan failure despite intensive care support. This case 
underlines the importance of recognizing paraneoplastic ADM as an initial 
manifestation of malignancy. A multidisciplinary approach is key, but the 
prognosis largely depends on the cancer's burden and complications such as 
treatment-induced immunosuppression.

Copyright © 2025, Haboub et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86031
PMCID: PMC12260473
PMID: 40666594

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


21. Cureus. 2025 Jun 13;17(6):e85971. doi: 10.7759/cureus.85971. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

Updates on Breast Cancer in Oman: Challenges and Promising Frontiers.

Al Khan A(1), Al Balushi N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Blood Bank, Sohar Hospital, Sohar, OMN.

Breast cancer is a significant public health concern in Oman, with increasing 
incidence rates over the past few decades. This literature review explores the 
epidemiology, risk factors, cultural influences, screening practices, treatment 
outcomes, research, and role of non-profit organizations in breast cancer 
awareness in Oman. The review highlights the unique challenges faced by Omani 
women, including late-stage diagnosis, cultural stigma, and limited awareness of 
screening programs. While efforts have been made to improve early detection and 
treatment, there is a need for more comprehensive public health strategies to 
address the growing burden of breast cancer in Oman. This review synthesizes 
recent studies to provide a comprehensive overview of the current state of 
breast cancer in Oman and suggests directions for future research and policy 
interventions.

Copyright © 2025, Al Khan et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.85971
PMCID: PMC12261441
PMID: 40666565

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


22. Front Immunol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1618193. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1618193. 
eCollection 2025.

Identification and validation of genes related to stem cells and telomere 
maintenance mechanisms as biomarkers for breast cancer.

Zhen S(#)(1), Huang L(#)(1), Zhu Q(1), Chen R(1), Wang J(1), Zha X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Surgery, Department of General Surgery, The First 
Affiliated Hospital with Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Stem cell-related genes (SCRGs) and telomere maintenance 
mechanism-related genes (TMMRGs) are pivotal in breast cancer (BC) pathogenesis 
by facilitating tumor cell proliferation and self-renewal. This study employed 
integrated transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) analyses to 
investigate SCRGs and TMMRGs as potential biomarkers for BC and to elucidate 
their underlying cellular mechanisms.
METHODS: Total RNA was extracted from eight BC tumor samples and eight matched 
adjacent non-tumorous tissues. Differential expression profiling, 
protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, and Molecular Complex 
Detection (MCODE) were conducted. Biomarker candidates were identified using the 
least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) algorithm, followed by 
pathway enrichment and immunological analyses. Publicly available scRNA-seq 
datasets were utilized to delineate BC cell types, with emphasis on cellular 
subsets exhibiting differential biomarker expression. Heterogeneity, 
communication, and pseudo-temporal analyses of key cells were examined. 
Biomarker expression was further validated by reverse transcription-quantitative 
polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).
RESULTS: JUN, NFKB1, and SP1 were significantly downregulated in BC, potentially 
modulating disease progression through mechanisms involving extracellular matrix 
(ECM) remodeling, intracellular signaling, oxidative stress response, and 
translational regulation. Activated B cells and natural killer (NK) cells 
demonstrated elevated infiltration levels, accompanied by increased expression 
of immune checkpoint molecules CD200, CD274, TIGIT, TNFRSF25, and TNFSF15. Nine 
distinct cellular lineages were annotated, among which mesenchymal cells 
exhibited pronounced biomarker expression differences and enhanced 
differentiation potential, designating them as key cellular mediators. 
Interactions between mesenchymal subpopulations (MSC1, MSC2, MSC3) and other 
cell types were markedly reduced in BC, despite an overall expansion in 
mesenchymal cell numbers during disease progression. MSC1 emerged as the 
predominant subtype. RT-qPCR analyses corroborated the downregulation of JUN, 
NFKB1, and SP1 in BC tissues.
CONCLUSION: JUN, NFKB1, and SP1 were identified as potential biomarkers for BC. 
These findings highlight the critical role of mesenchymal cells in tumor biology 
and suggest potential therapeutic targets.

Copyright © 2025 Zhen, Huang, Zhu, Chen, Wang and Zha.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1618193
PMCID: PMC12259709
PMID: 40666524

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


23. Front Immunol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1604089. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1604089. 
eCollection 2025.

Genomic and immune profiling of prognostic risk groups in IgM gammopathy reveals 
novel biomarkers beyond MYD88 L265P.

Moreno DF(#)(1)(2), Nadeu F(#)(2)(3), Brasó-Maristany F(2)(4)(5), Vaqué S(2), 
Paz S(6), Mañé J(2), Cardús O(2), Medina E(1), Lozano E(1)(2), Rodríguez-Lobato 
LG(1)(2), de Daniel A(1)(2), Tovar N(1), Cibeira MT(1), Bladé J(1), Rosiñol 
L(1), Prat A(2)(4)(5)(7), Colomer D(2)(3)(6), Fernández de Larrea C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Amyloidosis and Myeloma Unit, Department of Hematology, Hospital Clínic de 
Barcelona, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Cáncer (CIBERONC), Madrid, Spain.
(4)Institute of Cancer and Blood Diseases, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Reveal Genomics, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Hematopathology Unit, Department of Pathology, Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Breast Cancer Unit, Institute of Oncology (IOB)-QuirónSalud, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: MYD88 L265P is an early mutation in IgM monoclonal gammopathy of 
undetermined significance (MGUS) and asymptomatic Waldenström macroglobulinemia 
(WM). Given the high prevalence of the MYD88 mutation observed in 
epidemiological studies, its presence is not sufficient to drive disease 
progression. In fact, a recent risk model of progression reported that the 
impact of other laboratory biomarkers was superior to the MYD88 mutation's 
presence. Due to the low incidence of these clinicopathological entities, there 
is a need for a better characterization of tumor and immune cells that can help 
to identify novel biomarkers. We hypothesize that the characterization of the 
risk groups in asymptomatic patients could improve the discovery of drivers of 
disease progression.
METHODS: We characterized the genomic and immune landscape of the most recent 
prognostic risk categories in 19 IgM MGUS and 17 asymptomatic WM patients. We 
performed targeted next generation sequencing (NGS) on CD19+ cells from bone 
marrow samples at diagnosis using a panel of 54 lymphoma-driver genes. Whole 
bone marrow samples were also used to measure mRNA gene expression in tumor and 
immune cells using the PanCancer ImmuneProfiling panel on the nCounter platform 
(NanoString).
RESULTS: We observed that low-risk patients were only characterized by the 
presence of MYD88 L265P, while intermediate- and high-risk groups harbored 
additional mutations on CXCR4, KMT2D, ARID1A and EP300. Regarding the mRNA 
expression analyses, we found an increased proportion of myeloid cells in the 
low-risk group, with monocytes having a significant decrease in low versus 
high-risk patients. The high-risk group also upregulated genes involved in the 
activation of NF-κB and B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling, while low-risk patients 
upregulated genes associated with an alternative activation of B cells or a 
decrease of the BCR signaling, such as TOLLIP, CEACAM1 and CR1.
CONCLUSIONS: Beyond the MYD88 mutation, we described novel molecular mechanisms 
associated with high-risk patients, as an effort moving towards easy-to use new 
biomarkers in IgM gammopathy.

Copyright © 2025 Moreno, Nadeu, Brasó-Maristany, Vaqué, Paz, Mañé, Cardús, 
Medina, Lozano, Rodríguez-Lobato, de Daniel, Tovar, Cibeira, Bladé, Rosiñol, 
Prat, Colomer and Fernández de Larrea.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1604089
PMCID: PMC12259550
PMID: 40666506

Conflict of interest statement: DM received travel grants and honoraria from 
Janssen. FN received honoraria from Janssen, AbbVie, AstraZeneca, and SOPHiA 
GENETICS, and research funding from Gilead. FN licensed the use of the protected 
IgCaller algorithm for SOPHiA GENETICS and Diagnóstica Longwood. CF consulted 
and received honoraria from GSK, Sanofi, Pfizer, BeiGene, Amgen, BMS, and 
Janssen and received research funding from GSK, Amgen, and Janssen. JB received 
honoraria for lectures from Janssen and Sanofi. NT received honoraria for 
lectures from Pfizer. FB-M. refers a part-time employment from Reveal Genomics. 
AP reports advisory and consulting fees from AstraZeneca, Roche, Pfizer, 
Novartis, Daiichi Sankyo, Ona Therapeutics, and Peptomyc, lecture fees from 
AstraZeneca, Roche, Novartis, and Daiichi Sankyo, institutional financial 
interests from AstraZeneca, Novartis, Roche, and Daiichi Sankyo; and is a 
stockholder and employee of Reveal Genomics. LR received honoraria for lectures 
from Janssen, BMS, Amgen, Takeda, Sanofi, GSK, Pfizer and Menarini. LR-L. 
received honoraria and travel grants from Janssen, Amgen, BMS, GSK, Menarini 
Stemline, and Sanofi. MC received honoraria from Amgen and Janssen. AD received 
honoraria for lectures from Janssen, travel grants from Sanofi and Binding Site. 
The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of 
any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that they were an editorial board 
member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. This had no impact on the peer 
review process and the final decision.


24. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2025 Jun 9;16(7):1290-1298. doi: 
10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00125. eCollection 2025 Jul 10.

Exploring the Ligandability of 53BP1 through Fragment-Based Approaches.

Chiew B(1), Gunzburg MJ(1)(2), Foley CA(2)(3), Zeng H(4), Dong A(4), Brown 
PJ(4), The J(4), Norris-Drouin JL(3), Cholensky SH(3), Mohanty B(1)(2), Scanlon 
MJ(1)(2), Headey SJ(1)(2), Doak BC(1)(2), James LI(3).

Author information:
(1)Medicinal Chemistry, Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Monash 
University, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia.
(2)Monash Fragment Platform, Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Monash 
University, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia.
(3)Center for Integrative Chemical Biology and Drug Discovery, Division of 
Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry, UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy, 
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, United States.
(4)Structural Genomics Consortium, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada, M5G 1L7.

53BP1 is a DNA damage response protein recruited to sites of double strand 
breaks through recognition of dimethylated lysine on histone 4 by its tandem 
Tudor domains. Like 53BP1, BRCA-1 plays a role in the regulation of DNA repair 
pathways, and BRCA-1 mutations have been strongly linked to breast and ovarian 
cancer. Interestingly, mice null for 53BP1 and BRCA-1 genes display minimal 
tumor formation, suggesting that the effects of deleterious BRCA-1 mutations 
could be prevented with potent 53BP1 small molecule antagonists. Herein, we 
describe a fragment screen that was used to identify compounds that bind to the 
53BP1 Tudor domain and a chemoinformatic workflow to select near-neighbor 
analogues and establish structure activity relationships for these binders. The 
marked affinity improvements of the analogues over their parent fragments 
highlights the developability of these series and the utility of this approach 
in discovering novel hit compounds for 53BP1 and other methyl-lysine reader 
proteins.

© 2025 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00125
PMCID: PMC12257399
PMID: 40666473


25. Front Psychiatry. 2025 Jul 1;16:1615271. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1615271. 
eCollection 2025.

Psychological capital mediates the relationship between medication adherence and 
cancer-related fatigue in breast cancer patients undergoing long-term treatment.

Yan C(1)(2), Chu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Nursing, The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(3)School of Basic Medicine, Changsha Medical University, Changsha, 
Hunan, China.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is one of the most prevalent malignant tumors among 
women worldwide. Although long-term pharmacological treatment has substantially 
improved survival rates, it is often accompanied by psychological burdens, 
including cancer-related fatigue (CRF) and diminished adherence to therapy. CRF 
is a pervasive and debilitating symptom that adversely affects physical 
functioning and emotional well-being. Psychological capital (PsyCap), a 
construct encompassing self-efficacy, hope, optimism, and resilience, has been 
shown to enhance treatment engagement and promote mental health. However, its 
role as a potential psychological mediator between medication adherence and CRF 
is yet to be thoroughly investigated.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the mediating role of PsyCap in the relationship 
between medication adherence and CRF in patients with breast cancer undergoing 
long-term treatment.
METHODS: A total of 100 breast cancer patients admitted between June 2022 and 
June 2024 were recruited using convenience sampling. Data from 90 valid 
responses were analyzed. Participants completed the PsyCap Questionnaire 
(PCQ-24), Self-Reported Medication Adherence Rating Scale (SR-MARS), and CRF 
Scale (CFS). Pearson's correlation analysis was used to assess associations 
among variables. A mediation analysis was conducted using the bootstrap method 
with 5,000 resamples.
RESULTS: The mean scores for PsyCap, medication adherence, and CRF were 86.65 ± 
8.37, 5.36 ± 1.12, and 36.77 ± 5.98, respectively. PsyCap was positively 
correlated with medication adherence (r = 0.994, p < 0.05) and negatively 
correlated with CRF (r = -0.992, p < 0.05). Medication adherence was also 
negatively correlated with CRF (r = -0.994, p < 0.05). Mediation analysis 
confirmed that PsyCap significantly mediated the relationship between medication 
adherence and CRF (indirect effect = 0.357, 95% CI did not include zero), 
accounting for 55.68% of the total effect.
CONCLUSION: PsyCap partially mediated the association between medication 
adherence and CRF. Interventions aimed at enhancing PsyCap may improve adherence 
and reduce CRF in breast cancer patients receiving long-term pharmacotherapy.

Copyright © 2025 Yan and Chu.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1615271
PMCID: PMC12259705
PMID: 40666442

Conflict of interest statement: The remaining authors declare that the research 
was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that 
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


26. Breast Care (Basel). 2025 Jun 12. doi: 10.1159/000546089. Online ahead of
print.

The Risk of Cardiovascular Disease following Aromatase Inhibitor Therapy for 
Breast Cancer in Postmenopausal Women: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Berbari E(1), Anees A(2), Kaur R(1), Ayeni FE(2)(3), Edirimanne S(2).

Author information:
(1)Sydney Medical School, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)Department of Surgery, Nepean Clinical School, The University of Sydney, 
Kingswood, NSW, Australia.
(3)Nepean Institute of Academic Surgery, Nepean Clinical School, The University 
of Sydney, Kingswood, NSW, Australia.

BACKGROUND: More women are recovering and living longer lives due to advancement 
in breast cancer therapies. Aromatase inhibitors (AIs) are one form of endocrine 
therapy for breast cancer that may have an impact on the risk of developing 
cardiovascular diseases later in life. This study investigated whether AI 
therapy for breast cancer in postmenopausal women increases the risk of 
developing cardiovascular disease in comparison with tamoxifen therapy or no 
hormonal therapy.
METHODS: Comparisons were made between tamoxifen and no hormonal therapy using 
PRISMA guidelines. We searched publicly available databases for studies 
including postmenopausal women who underwent AI therapy for breast cancer 
investigating the risk ratio of specific cardiovascular outcomes and 
cardiovascular death.
RESULTS: There was a significant increase in the risk of ischaemic heart disease 
(RR 1.59, 95% CI: 1.25-2.02, p < 0.05), myocardial infarction (RR 1.50, 95% CI: 
1.13-1.99, p < 0.05), heart failure (RR 1.63, 95% CI: 1.14-2.32, p < 0.05), and 
other cardiovascular events (RR 1.26, 95% CI: 1.12-1.40, p < 0.05) in the AI 
group when compared to tamoxifen. However, there was a significant decrease in 
the risk of myocardial infarction (RR 0.77, 95% CI: 0.65-0.90, p < 0.05) in the 
AI group when compared to no hormonal treatment.
CONCLUSION: There is an increased risk of cardiovascular disease for AI therapy 
in comparison to tamoxifen therapy. However, further research is needed to 
establish the cardiovascular risk of AIs when compared to no hormonal therapy. 
Prognosis and survival of patients should be an important consideration in 
choosing between tamoxifen and AI therapy among patients receiving treatment for 
breast cancer. Regular monitoring is essential to facilitate personalized 
approaches aimed at mitigating the risk of cardiovascular toxicity.

© 2025 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000546089
PMCID: PMC12259065
PMID: 40666192

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this article.


27. Front Oncol. 2025 Jul 1;15:1647090. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2025.1647090.
eCollection  2025.

Correction: Gut microbiota, metabolites, and cytokines in relation to the risk 
of prostate cancer in the Asian population.

Wang Z(#)(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Chen H(#)(2)(3), Liu Y(#)(2)(3), Zou L(2)(3), Zhang 
Z(2)(3), Yin Z(4)(5), Mao S(2)(3), Guo C(2)(3), Yang B(2)(3), Wu P(1)(2)(3), Yao 
X(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Clinical Medical 
College of Nanjing Medical University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Urology, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Urologic Cancer Institute, School of Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)Department of Breast and Thyroid Surgery, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, 
Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(5)Shanghai Center of Thyroid Diseases, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Tongji 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum for
    Front Oncol. 2025 Jan 15;14:1466190. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1466190.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1466190.].

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Chen, Liu, Zou, Zhang, Yin, Mao, Guo, Yang, Wu and Yao.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2025.1647090
PMCID: PMC12260928
PMID: 40666100


28. Front Oncol. 2025 Jul 1;15:1496468. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2025.1496468.
eCollection  2025.

Impact of blood lipid levels on breast cancer prognosis: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Song J(1), Jin Y(1), Yu Q(1), Wu H(1), Gao X(1).

Author information:
(1)The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer has emerged as the predominant malignant neoplasm 
globally, with potential implications for patient prognosis based on blood lipid 
profiles. This study aims to systematically review and meta-analyze the 
influence of lipid levels on the prognostic outcomes of individuals with breast 
cancer.
METHODS: A thorough search was performed across multiple academic databases, 
including Embase, Cochrane, PubMed, Web of Science, CNKI, and Wanfang Database, 
up to March 2024. A meta-analysis was conducted to assess the impact of total 
cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol 
(LDL-C), and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) on the prognosis of 
Breast Cancer. The primary outcome measure was hazard ratios (HR) for overall 
survival (OS) and/or disease-free survival (DFS).
RESULTS: Eight studies meeting inclusion criteria from a total of 13,292 were 
included in the meta-analysis. The systematic review and meta-analysis 
demonstrate an association between lower HDL-C levels and poorer survival 
outcomes. However, the statistical analysis did not find significant 
associations between HDL-C, TG, and LDL-C levels and the prognosis of breast 
cancer patients.
CONCLUSION: While our analysis reveals a link between reduced HDL-C levels and 
unfavorable survival outcomes, the statistical evidence does not support 
significant connections between HDL-C, TG, and LDL-C concentrations and the 
prognostic landscape for breast cancer patients. Further research is warranted 
to explore these relationships more comprehensively.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO, identifier 
CRD42021297118.

Copyright © 2025 Song, Jin, Yu, Wu and Gao.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2025.1496468
PMCID: PMC12260459
PMID: 40666099

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


29. Front Genet. 2025 Jul 1;16:1586287. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2025.1586287.
eCollection  2025.

Expression characteristics, molecular mechanisms, and clinical significance of 
DICER1 in breast cancer.

Zhang X(1), Yu L(2), Geng C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Center, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(2)Department of Anaesthesia, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the expression patterns, molecular 
mechanisms, and clinical significance of DICER1 in breast cancer (BRCA), 
providing new biomarkers and therapeutic targets for prognosis assessment and 
personalized treatment of breast cancer.
METHODS: By integrating RNA-seq data, clinical data, and tumor mutation burden 
(TMB) data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, as well as single-cell 
transcriptomic data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, we analyzed 
the expression characteristics of DICER1 in breast cancer. Weighted gene 
co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to identify gene modules 
associated with the breast cancer phenotype, and gene set enrichment analysis 
(GSEA) was performed to explore their biological functions. Cellular experiments 
were conducted to verify the effects of DICER1 on the proliferation, migration, 
and invasion of breast cancer cells. A nomogram model was constructed based on 
clinical data to evaluate its prognostic value. Additionally, the effects of 
DICER1 expression levels on drug sensitivity and the tumor immune 
microenvironment were analyzed.
RESULTS: The expression of DICER1 in breast cancer tissues was significantly 
lower than that in normal tissues, and was significantly correlated with tumor 
stage, T stage, and TMB levels. The expression level of DICER1 was an 
independent prognostic factor for breast cancer patients. The nomogram model 
based on DICER1 expression and clinical features demonstrated good 
discriminative ability in predicting patient survival probability. Drug 
sensitivity analysis revealed that the high-expression group of DICER1 exhibited 
higher sensitivity to multiple drugs. Immune microenvironment analysis indicated 
that the low-expression group of DICER1 had higher immune-suppressive features 
and immune exclusion scores, suggesting potential resistance to immunotherapy. 
Single-cell transcriptomic analysis revealed heterogeneous expression of DICER1 
in breast cancer cell populations and its potential role in cell-cell 
communication.
CONCLUSION: DICER1 plays an important regulatory role in breast cancer, with its 
expression level closely related to tumor progression, the immune 
microenvironment, and drug sensitivity. DICER1 has the potential to become an 
important biomarker for prognosis assessment in breast cancer and may provide 
new targets for future immunotherapy and targeted therapy.

Copyright © 2025 Zhang, Yu and Geng.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2025.1586287
PMCID: PMC12259429
PMID: 40666073

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


30. Int J Nanomedicine. 2025 Jul 11;20:8951-8966. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S520329. 
eCollection 2025.

Nanoformulations Downregulating METTL16 Combined with mRNA Tumor Vaccines 
Suppress Triple-Negative Breast Cancer and Prevent Metastasis.

Wang R(#)(1), Zhang Y(#)(1), Du S(1), Li Y(2), Ren Y(3), Lin J(1).

Author information:
(1)MOE Key Laboratory of Bio-Intelligent Manufacturing, School of 
Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, Dalian, Liaoning, 116024, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of International Medical Department, the Second Affiliated 
Hospital of Dalian Medical University, Dalian, Liaoning, 116021, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)Hernia and Colorectal Surgery Department, the Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Dalian Medical University, Dalian, Liaoning, 116023, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) poses a significant threat to 
women's health due to its high malignancy and recurrence. Traditional treatments 
such as surgical resection, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy are no longer 
sufficient to meet clinical needs. Based on prior research that identified 
METTL16 as a potential target for TNBC, this study aimed to develop a 
nanoformulation to mitigate the malignancy of TNBC by silencing METTL16. The 
integration of this formulation with emerging mRNA tumor vaccines aimed to 
effectively inhibit the growth and metastasis of TNBC.
RESEARCH METHODS: Using microfluidic technology, efficient siRNA encapsulation 
in lipid nanoparticle (LNP) yielded LNP/siMETTL16 and selective organ-targeting 
LNP/siMETTL16 (SORT-LNP/siMETTL16). Initially, the antitumor properties of 
LNP/siMETTL16 were evaluated at the cellular level. Subsequently, the antitumor 
properties were explored in mouse subcutaneous TNBC models with LNP/siMETTL16 
(intratumoral injection) and mRNA tumor vaccines (intramuscular injection). The 
combined inhibition of TNBC lung metastasis by SORT-LNP/siMETTL16 (intravenous 
injection) and mRNA vaccine (intramuscular injection) was also investigated.
RESULTS: Cellular experiments demonstrated the efficient silencing effect of 
LNP/siMETTL16, leading to inhibition of tumor cell activity. The combination of 
LNP/siMETTL16 and LNP/mMUC1 significantly suppressed subcutaneous tumor growth, 
achieving an inhibition rate of 66.0%. Furthermore, the combination of 
SORT-LNP/siMETTL16 and mRNA tumor vaccines markedly alleviated TNBC lung 
metastasis.
CONCLUSION: This study provides evident support for the application and 
translation of METTL16 as a therapeutic target and offers a novel strategy for 
TNBC combined treatment in clinical settings.

© 2025 Wang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S520329
PMCID: PMC12262087
PMID: 40665962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Yufeng Zhang reports grants from Department of 
Science & Technology of Liaoning province, Dalian Municipal Science and 
Technology Bureau, the Second Afﬁliated Hospital of Dalian Medical University 
and Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China, during the conduct 
of the study. The other authors report no conflicts of interest in this work.


31. Ann Ital Chir. 2025 Jul 10;96(7):950-955. doi: 10.62713/aic.3888.

18 Years Experience of an Italian Breast Unit Among Male Breast Cancer: A 
Retrospective Observational Study.

Taraschi F(1), Cossa A(2), Maggi S(2), Lombardi A(2), Nicodemi EM(3).

Author information:
(1)UO Chirurgia Plastica, Dipartimento per la Salute della Donna, del Bambino e 
di Sanità Pubblica-Fondazione Policlinico Universitario "Agostino Gemelli" 
IRCCS-Università Cattolica del "Sacro Cuore", 00168 Rome, Italy.
(2)Breast Unit, Department of General Surgery, S. Andrea University Hospital, 
00189 Rome, Italy.
(3)Istituto Dermopatico dell' Immacolata (IDI), Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a 
Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS), Fondazione Luigi Maria Monti (FLMM), 00167 Rome, 
Italy.

AIM: Male breast cancer has increased by approximately 26% over the past 25 
years, there is a need to research specific treatment options. Currently, there 
is no established standard treatment which is therefore based on female disease. 
The purpose of this study is to analyze the clinical characteristics, survival 
outcomes, and the need for tailored treatment strategies in male breast cancer 
patients.
METHODS: This is an observational, retrospective, single-center clinical study. 
The research involved 21 male patients who underwent surgery for breast cancer 
from 2003 to 2020 in our hospital. In order to strengthen the statistical value 
of the results obtained, the survival curves of three selected studies in the 
literature were compared with that obtained in the present study.
RESULTS: All our patients underwent total mastectomy and axillary lymph node 
dissection. Twenty patients were diagnosed with invasive ductal carcinoma, while 
only one patient with invasive lobular carcinoma. The 5-year survival was 71.4% 
with a median survival for metastatic patients of 5.7 years. A statistically 
significant difference was found when comparing 5-year survival with one of the 
other three studies (p = 0.048).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight the delayed clinical presentation of male 
breast cancer and a 5-year overall survival of 71.4%, underscoring the need for 
targeted screening strategies to improve early diagnosis and outcomes.The lack 
of knowledge of this disease at sociocultural and health level is the main 
reason for delay in diagnosis, a factor that strongly affects the prognosis.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.62713/aic.3888
PMID: 40665951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Cancer Res Treat. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 10.4143/crt.2025.423. Online ahead of
print.

Keratin 6A Overexpression in the Lymphovascular Invasion-Associated Tumor 
Subgroup Promotes Progression of Triple-Negative Breast Cancer.

Luo W(1), Zou Y(2), Jiang Y(1), Ma X(2), Guo S(1), Wang Y(1), Liu Y(2), Hai 
L(3)(4), Jia W(3)(4), Liu W(3)(4), Meng R(3)(4), Cao X(3)(4), Ruan X(1), Yu 
Y(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thyroid and Neck Tumor, Tianjin Medical University Cancer 
Institute and Hospital, National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Key 
Laboratory of Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Tianjin's Clinical Research Center 
for Cancer, Tianjin, China.
(2)Pancreas Center, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital, 
National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, State Key Laboratory of 
Druggability Evaluation and Systematic Translational Medicine, Tianjin Key 
Laboratory of Digestive Cancer, Tianjin's Clinical Research Center for Cancer, 
Tianjin, China.
(3)The First Department of Breast Cancer, Tianjin Medical University Cancer 
Institute and Hospital, National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Tianjin, 
China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Tianjin Medical 
University, Ministry of Education, Tianjin, China.

PURPOSE: Lymphovascular invasion (LVI) is a strong predictor of poor prognosis 
in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), yet its molecular basis remains 
unclear. This study investigates epithelial regulators associated with LVI and 
their functional roles in TNBC progression.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We utilized single-cell sequencing data to further 
characterize epithelial cell populations in TNBC, identifying dominant 
epithelial clusters in LVI-positive TNBC tissues. The prognostic significance of 
dominant epithelial marker genes was explored through transcriptomic analysis 
and immunohistochemical staining of patient samples from our center. 
Additionally, the effects of the marker gene on TNBC cell invasion and 
metastasis were validated in vitro and in vivo.
RESULTS: Single-cell data analysis revealed nine distinct epithelial cell 
clusters within TNBC tissues. Among these, Cluster 4 was identified as the 
dominant epithelial subpopulation in LVI-positive TNBC, marked by the prognostic 
gene KRT6A. Multiple datasets confirmed KRT6A as a crucial prognostic marker in 
TNBC. Functional assays, including CCK8, wound healing, transwell assays, and 
animal experiments, demonstrated that KRT6A knockdown significantly impaired the 
proliferation, invasion, and metastatic potential of TNBC cells. 
Mechanistically, KRT6A promoted epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and 
activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling by stabilizing β-catenin through GSK3β 
phosphorylation.
CONCLUSION: KRT6A promotes EMT and metastasis in TNBC via Wnt/β-catenin 
signaling, contributing to LVI and chemoresistance. It may serve as a prognostic 
biomarker and therapeutic target in TNBC.

DOI: 10.4143/crt.2025.423
PMID: 40665712


33. Oncologist. 2025 Jul 15:oyaf205. doi: 10.1093/oncolo/oyaf205. Online ahead of
 print.

Somatic Mutations in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Breast Cancer Patients: 
A Systematic Review.

Abujamous L(1)(2), Ahmed I(3), Ahen Y(3), Alotaibi H(3), Al Moustafa AE(4), Mohd 
Arif S(5), Al-Thawadi H(1), Razali R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, QU Health, Qatar 
University, Doha, Qatar.
(2)Office of Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies, Qatar University, 
Doha, Qatar.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Health Science, QU Health, 
Qatar University, Doha, Qatar.
(4)Oncology Department, McGill University, Montreal, QC, . Canada.
(5)University Kebangsaan Malaysia in Qatar (UKM Qatar), Doha, Qatar.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer presents with distinct clinical and molecular 
characteristics in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, where women 
are diagnosed at younger ages and with more aggressive disease compared to 
Western populations. Despite the global burden, genomic studies of breast cancer 
in MENA remain underrepresented. This systematic review provides the first 
comprehensive analysis of somatic mutations in breast cancer patients across the 
MENA region.
METHODS: Following PRISMA guidelines, we analyzed 44 studies encompassing 13 
MENA countries, representing data from over 2,500 breast cancer patients. 
Studies were rigorously assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale, with mutation 
data extracted, standardized, and classified according to pathogenicity using 
established databases. We employed multiple sequencing methodologies, including 
next-generation sequencing and targeted gene panels, to identify 
country-specific and region-wide mutation patterns.
RESULTS: We identified 559 mutations across 104 genes, with TP53 (23.79%) and 
PIK3CA (10.19%) emerging as the most frequently altered genes, followed by 
significant mutations in BRCA1/2, ATM, ESR1, and PTEN. Nearly 43% of variants 
were classified as pathogenic/likely pathogenic, while 23% remained variants of 
uncertain significance. Missense mutations predominated (60.29%), followed by 
frameshift variants (13.06%) and stop-gained mutations (10.91%). We discovered 
distinctive country-specific mutation profiles, including unique alterations in 
KLF6 (Turkey) and IL-1β (Iraq), reflecting potential environmental and 
hereditary influences unique to MENA populations. Notably, all 11 PIK3CA hotspot 
mutations that predict sensitivity to alpelisib therapy were identified.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals both shared and distinct somatic mutation 
patterns in MENA breast cancer patients compared to Western populations. The 
high prevalence of clinically actionable mutations, particularly in PIK3CA and 
DNA repair genes, presents immediate opportunities for implementing targeted 
therapies across the region. Our findings underscore the urgent need for 
establishing a MENA Breast Cancer Genomics Consortium to standardize sequencing 
protocols, develop locally validated gene panels, and create regional variant 
databases that capture the unique mutation spectrum of these populations. This 
comprehensive genomic landscape of breast cancer in the MENA region addresses a 
critical gap in global cancer genomics, ultimately improving outcomes for a 
historically underrepresented patient population.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/oncolo/oyaf205
PMID: 40665690


34. Tumori. 2025 Jul 15:3008916251353357. doi: 10.1177/03008916251353357. Online 
ahead of print.

Breast cancer and large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma harboring the same PIK3CA 
mutation: A case report.

Zattarin E(1)(2), Beninato T(3), Di Liberti G(3), Lorenzini D(4)(5), Vingiani 
A(4)(5), Leporati R(1)(2), Occhipinti M(3), Brambilla M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Hematology, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di 
Modena, Modena, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Modena and Reggio 
Emilia, Modena, Italy.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei 
Tumori, Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Diagnostic Innovation, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei 
Tumori, Milan, Italy.
(5)Department of Oncology and Hemato-Oncology, University of Milan, Milan, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND: The distinction between a metastatic recurrence and the onset of a 
second primary malignancy can be diagnostically challenging. Precision medicine 
can offer valuable support in this context.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 34-year-old woman was diagnosed in 2012 with 
hormone-receptor positive (HR+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 
2-negative (HER2-) breast cancer in the left breast, with homolateral axillary 
node involvement but no distant metastases. Following neoadjuvant chemotherapy, 
surgery (pathological stage was ypT1b ypN2a M0), adjuvant endocrine therapy and 
radiotherapy, she remained disease-free until 2021, when a positron emission 
tomography scan showed a mediastinal mass. Histology revealed a high-grade large 
cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) lacking breast cancer-specific markers 
(GATA3-, HR-, HER2-, mammoglobin-, GCDFP15-), with PD-L1 expression at 10% and a 
tumor mutational burden (TMB) of 9.54 mut/MB. Chemotherapy (cisplatin plus 
etoposide) led to rapid disease progression, whereas second-line pembrolizumab 
led to a remarkable and prolonged disease response. Treatment was discontinued 
in 2023 due to grade 3 immune-related colitis and, as of November 2024, the 
patient shows no clinical evidence of disease.Molecular analysis:Next-generation 
sequencing identified shared tumor PIK3CA pathogenic variants in both breast 
cancer and LCNEC tissues, suggesting a potential relationship as primary tumor 
and metastasis, rather than two distinct malignancies.
CONCLUSIONS: Molecular characterization of cancer enabled the identification of 
potential causal links between tumors with distinct histologies and locations, 
offering a deeper insight into an atypical clinical scenario.

DOI: 10.1177/03008916251353357
PMID: 40665666


35. Leuk Lymphoma. 2025 Jul 15:1-11. doi: 10.1080/10428194.2025.2531152. Online 
ahead of print.

BRMS1 suppresses the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway to regulate autophagy in multiple 
myeloma.

Yimingniyazi N(1), Abudureheman M(2), Aili W(1), Abudurexiti N(1), Rouzi N(3), 
Abudureyimu A(1), Abudureheman A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The First People's Hospital of Kashgar Region, 
Kashgar, China.
(2)Tuberculosis Department, Kashgar Tuberculosis Prevention and Control 
Institute and Kashgar Regional Pulmonary Hospital, Kashgar, China.
(3)Imaging Center, The First People's Hospital of Kashgar Region, Kashgar, 
China.

This study investigates the role of breast cancer metastasis suppressor 1 
(BRMS1) in multiple myeloma (MM) progression. BRMS1 expression was significantly 
reduced in MM patient samples and cell lines. Functional assays revealed that 
BRMS1 overexpression suppressed MM cell proliferation, migration, and invasion 
while enhancing apoptosis and autophagic flux. Conversely, BRMS1 knockdown 
promoted tumorigenic behaviors. Pharmacological inhibition or activation of 
autophagy confirmed that BRMS1's tumor-suppressive effects are 
autophagy-dependent. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that BRMS1 regulates 
autophagy through the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. These findings establish 
BRMS1 as a potential tumor suppressor in MM, linking its function to autophagy 
and apoptosis regulation. Targeting BRMS1-mediated autophagy may provide a novel 
therapeutic approach for MM treatment and addressing disease progression. This 
study offers new insights into MM pathogenesis and potential strategies for 
improving patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.1080/10428194.2025.2531152
PMID: 40665664


36. Tumori. 2025 Jul 15:3008916251356446. doi: 10.1177/03008916251356446. Online 
ahead of print.

A literature review of radio-genomics in breast cancer: Lessons and insights for 
low and middle-income countries.

Mooghal M(1), Shaikh K(2), Shaikh H(2), Khan W(3), Siddiqui MS(3), Jamil S(4), 
Vohra LM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Aga Khan University Hospital and Cancer Foundation 
Hospital, Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Surgery, Aga Khan University Hospital Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Surgery, Dow University of Health Sciences Karachi, Sindh, 
Pakistan.
(4)Department of Software Engineering, Bahria University Karachi, Pakistan.

To improve precision medicine in breast cancer (BC) decision-making, 
radio-genomics is an emerging branch of artificial intelligence (AI) that links 
cancer characteristics assessed radiologically with the histopathology and 
genomic properties of the tumour. By employing MRIs, mammograms, and ultrasounds 
to uncover distinctive radiomics traits that potentially predict genomic 
abnormalities, this review attempts to find literature that links AI-based 
models with the genetic mutations discovered in BC patients. The review's 
findings can be used to create AI-based population models for low and 
middle-income countries (LMIC) and evaluate how well they predict outcomes for 
our cohort.Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) appears to be the modality employed 
most frequently to research radio-genomics in BC patients in our systemic 
analysis. According to the papers we analysed, genetic markers and mutations 
linked to imaging traits, such as tumour size, shape, enhancing patterns, as 
well as clinical outcomes of treatment response, disease progression, and 
survival, can be identified by employing AI. The use of radio-genomics can help 
LMICs get through some of the barriers that keep the general population from 
having access to high-quality cancer care, thereby improving the health outcomes 
for BC patients in these regions. It is imperative to ensure that emerging 
technologies are used responsibly, in a way that is accessible to and affordable 
for all patients, regardless of their socio-economic condition.

DOI: 10.1177/03008916251356446
PMID: 40665657


37. Nat Prod Res. 2025 Jul 15:1-14. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2025.2531162. Online
ahead  of print.

Highly efficient and catalyst-free ring-closing reaction of 2'-hydroxychalcones 
into potential bioactive flavanones.

Thi Pham TN(1), Thi Vo MD(1), Thi Tran TP(1), Luu Huynh GN(1), Thi Luu TX(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Organic Chemistry, University of Science, Vietnam National 
University, Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.

Ionic liquids are known as useful and eco-friendly solvents due to their low 
vaporisation and suitable physicochemical properties. The synthesis of 
flavanones via the reversible ring-closing reaction of 2'-hydroxychalcones with 
or without catalysts in the presence of various ionic liquids has been studied. 
Under optimal conditions, seventeen flavanones were obtained in yields ranging 
from 38% to 88% in 1-8 h, depending on the substituents of 2'-hydroxychalcones. 
Besides, the high recyclability of [Bpy]Br, which could be recycled four times 
without any significant decrease in yield, is an important highlight of the 
present method. Furthermore, seven of the synthesised flavanones were selected 
for testing their in vitro anticancer efficacy against lung (A549) and breast 
(MCF-7) cancer cells. The screening led to the identification of a potent 
inhibitor, 4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyflavone, 2 m, for further testing against liver 
(HepG2) and cervix (HeLa) cancer cells.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2025.2531162
PMID: 40665653


38. Med Phys. 2025 Jul;52(7):e17987. doi: 10.1002/mp.17987.

Estimates of cardiac implanted electronic device neutron dose for a pencil beam 
scanning proton therapy system.

Hopfensperger KM(1), Li W(2), Sheldon SH(3), Rotondo RL(2), Chen RC(2), James 
SS(4), Lin Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas 
City, Kansas, USA.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, 
Kansas City, Kansas, USA.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.

BACKGROUND: The presence of a cardiovascular implantable electronic device 
(CIED) is frequently viewed as a contraindication to proton therapy due to the 
creation of secondary neutrons that can potentially damage CIED electronics. As 
a result, photon therapy is typically recommended for patients with CIEDs.
PURPOSE: The study aims to provide a method for estimating neutron dose to a 
CIED by measuring equivalent neutron dose at varying distances from isocenter 
and field edge. This estimation can be used to guide clinical decisions by 
balancing the risk of neutron-induced CIED damage against the therapeutic 
benefits of proton therapy.
METHODS: Standardized three-dimensional measurement fields of varying dimensions 
were delivered using the IBA ProteusONE (Ion Beam Applications SA, Walloon 
Brabant, Belgium) pencil beam scanning proton therapy system, with each field 
delivering an RBE-weighted dose of 2 Gy. Baseline measurement included one 
treatment field being delivered with a range shifter. BD-PND detectors (Bubble 
Technology Industries, Chalk River, ON) were placed at a defined distances from 
the surface mark of beam isocenter and field edge to record neutron doses. 
Additionally, clinical treatment plans including two prostate/pelvis plans, two 
head & neck plans, two brain plans, and one breast plans were delivered, with 
detectors placed at positions corresponding to the location of a CIED.
RESULTS: For fields without a range shifter, the measured neutron dose ranged 
from 0.11 µSv/2 Gy for the smallest field at 50 cm from isocenter to 11.0 
µSv/2 Gy for the largest field size at 10 cm from isocenter for fields. The 
addition of a range shifter to the 10 × 10 × 10 cm3 field increased the dose to 
0.66 µSv/2 Gy at 50 cm to 14.2 µSv/2 Gy at 10 cm from isocenter. For clinical 
treatment plans, neutron doses ranging from 0.14 µSv/2 Gy to 9.5 µSv /2 Gy at 
24-56 cm from isocenter.
CONCLUSION: These measurements provide a foundation for estimating neutron doses 
to CIEDs, enabling physicists and physicians to evaluate the feasibility of 
proton therapy for patients with CIEDs. The results support informed clinical 
decision-making by quantifying the risk of neutron-induced damage relative to 
the therapeutic benefits of proton therapy.

© 2025 American Association of Physicists in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mp.17987
PMID: 40665543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2025 Jul 16:djaf189. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djaf189. Online
ahead  of print.

Polygenic risk of coronary artery disease for long-term survivors of breast 
cancer.

Watt GP(1)(2), Reiner AS(1), Shu X(1), Malone KE(3), Knight JA(4)(5), John 
EM(6)(7), Chow EJ(3)(8), Lynch CF(9), Mellemkjær L(10), Woods M(1), Liang X(1), 
Tran AP(11), Oh JH(11), Derkach A(1), Bernstein JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Division of Psychosocial Research and Epidemiology, the Netherlands Cancer 
Institute, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Division of Public Health Sciences, Epidemiology Program, Fred Hutchinson 
Cancer Center, Seattle, WA, USAs.
(4)Sinai Health, Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(8)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchison Cancer Center, Seattle, WA, USA.
(9)Department of Epidemiology, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(10)Danish Cancer Institute, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(11)Department of Medical Physics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, USA.

AIM: Cardiovascular disease is a leading cause of death for long-term breast 
cancer survivors. We evaluated whether a polygenic risk score for coronary 
artery disease (CAD-PRS) was associated with the risk of incident CAD for 
survivors of unilateral or contralateral breast cancer.
METHODS: The study included 1,307 women with breast cancer first diagnosed at 
age <55 years who participated in the WECARE Follow-up Study. The CAD-PRS was 
based on a PRS developed and validated in a separate population. We modelled the 
association between incident CAD and the CAD-PRS, adjusting for age, CAD risk 
factors, first (and second) breast cancer treatment, study recruitment phase, 
and genetic population stratification. We also explored whether the risk of CAD 
depended on interactions between the CAD-PRS and cardiotoxic cancer treatment.
RESULTS: There were 65 incident CAD diagnoses reported at a median of 16 years 
after breast cancer diagnosis. Participants with CAD-PRS≥median had a 2.48-times 
increased risk of CAD (95%CI = 1.44-4.29) relative to participants with 
CAD-PRS<median. Anthracycline-based chemotherapy was associated with increased 
CAD risk (HR = 2.04, 95%CI = 1.04-3.98), and the association was not modified by 
the CAD-PRS. The association between incident CAD and left-sided RT was 
increased for those with CAD-PRS≥median (HR = 2.90, 95% CI = 1.26-6.68), but not 
for those with CAD-PRS<median (HR = 0.96, 95% CI 0.32-2.88). There was evidence 
of super-additive interaction between the CAD-PRS and left-sided RT (relative 
excess risk due to interaction = 2.06, 95% CI 0.05-4.06).
CONCLUSIONS: A genome-wide CAD-PRS was associated with non-fatal CAD risk for 
long-term breast cancer survivors, providing potential utility for personalized 
cardiovascular care, particularly after RT.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and 
translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through 
our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our 
site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djaf189
PMID: 40665521


40. Breast Cancer Res. 2025 Jul 15;27(1):132. doi: 10.1186/s13058-025-02084-9.

Fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling modulates cholesterol storage in a 
SOAT1-dependent manner to promote mammary tumor cell invasion.

Tuokkola JE(1), Reese LE(2), Wang Y(2), O'Connor CH(2)(3), VanTreeck JG(1), 
Rumahorbo AH(2), Schwertfeger KL(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Pharmacology and Therapeutics Graduate Program, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(3)Supercomputing Institute, University of Minnesota, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA. schwe251@umn.edu.
(5)Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA. 
schwe251@umn.edu.
(6)Center for Immunology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA. 
schwe251@umn.edu.

Signaling by fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFRs) is active in up to 85% 
of breast cancers and results in enhanced proliferation, migration, and invasion 
of tumor cells. Here, we show that FGFR signaling regulates cholesterol 
metabolism in breast cancer. Specifically, we demonstrate that FGFR activation 
promotes cellular cholesterol storage by upregulating expression of the enzyme 
sterol O-acyltransferase 1 (SOAT1). Moreover, we demonstrate that inhibition of 
SOAT1 attenuates FGFR-driven colony formation and invasion in tumor cells, which 
correlates with reduced expression of matrix metalloproteinase expression. 
Furthermore, genetic knockdown of SOAT1 decreases mammary tumor growth in vivo. 
Taken together, these findings suggest a largely undiscovered metabolic role for 
FGFR signaling in regulating cholesterol metabolism in breast cancer and present 
a therapeutic vulnerability that could be targeted in FGFR-driven cancers.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13058-025-02084-9
PMID: 40665359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal care and procedures were approved by the University of 
Minnesota IACUC under protocol 2208–40316 A and were in accordance with the 
procedures detailed in the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. No 
human subjects were used in this study. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


41. Breast Cancer Res. 2025 Jul 15;27(1):133. doi: 10.1186/s13058-025-02061-2.

Multi-transcriptomics predicts clinical outcome in systemically untreated breast 
cancer patients with extensive follow-up.

Do TTN(1)(2), Block I(1)(3), Burton M(1)(2)(4), Sørensen KP(1), Larsen MJ(1)(2), 
Jylling AMB(5), Ejlertsen B(6), Lænkholm AV(7), Tan Q(2)(8), Kruse TA(2)(4), 
Thomassen M(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Genetics, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(2)Unit of Human Genetics, Department of Clinical Research, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(3)Present address: Institute of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacy, University 
of Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(4)Clinical Genome Center, University of Southern Denmark & Region of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(5)Department of Pathology, Odense University Hospital. Institute of Clinical 
Research, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(6)Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group & Department of Clinical Oncology 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)Department of Surgical Pathology, Zealand University Hospital, Slagelse, 
Denmark.
(8)Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Biodemography, Department of Public Health, 
University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(9)Department of Clinical Genetics, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark. 
Mads.Thomassen@rsyd.dk.
(10)Unit of Human Genetics, Department of Clinical Research, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark. Mads.Thomassen@rsyd.dk.
(11)Clinical Genome Center, University of Southern Denmark & Region of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark. Mads.Thomassen@rsyd.dk.

BACKGROUND: Prognostic tools for determining patients with indolent breast 
cancers (BCs) are far from optimal, leading to extensive overtreatment. Several 
studies have demonstrated mRNAs, lncRNAs and miRNAs to have prognostic potential 
in BC. Because mRNAs, lncRNAs, and miRNAs capture distinct transcriptomic 
information, we hypothesized that combining them would improve classification 
performance.
METHODS: Our pair-matched design study included fresh frozen primary tumor 
samples from 160 lymph node negative and systemically untreated BC patients of 
which 80 developed recurrence while 80 remained recurrence-free (mean follow-up 
of 20.9 years). We integrated three classes of RNA and subsequently performed 
classification using seven machine learning methods followed by a voting scheme.
RESULTS: Under the criteria of ≥ 90% sensitivity, individual classifications 
resulted in specificities ranging from 74-91% for the integrated dataset and 
56-66%, 58-71% and 69-86% for mRNAs, lncRNAs and miRNAs individually. The 
specificity level for the multi-transcriptomic dataset was 85% after voting 
while it was 38%, 48% and 82% for mRNAs, lncRNAs and miRNAs, respectively. In 
the clinical setting, very high sensitivity may be requested. In the most 
stringent clinical setting with a sensitivity of 99%, the integrated dataset 
also outperformed the others with a specificity of 41% compared to 0%, 9% and 
28% for mRNAs, lncRNAs and miRNAs, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Our results strongly suggest an improvement of prognostic power for 
classification using an integrated dataset compared to individual classes of RNA 
and thus encourage researches to opt for an integration of datasets rather than 
analyzing them separately.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13058-025-02061-2
PMID: 40665339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Patient consent was waived because the tumor samples included in 
the study were collected from established biobanks at Odense University 
Hospital, Denmark where utilization of these surplus samples has been approved 
by the Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics. Patients who 
objected to the use of their tumor material via the Danish Tissue Utilization 
Register were excluded from the study. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


42. Breast Cancer. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s12282-025-01742-2. Online ahead of 
print.

Major anatomic variations of the lateral upper arm lymphatic pathway in a 
healthy female population.

Fanning JE(1), Givant M(1), Chen A(1), Thomson S(1), Tillotson E(1), Fleishman 
A(1), Donohoe K(2), Singhal D(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Surgery, Beth 
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, 110 Francis St, Suite 
5A, Boston, MA, 02215, USA.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Surgery, Beth 
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, 110 Francis St, Suite 
5A, Boston, MA, 02215, USA. dsinghal@bidmc.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND: The lateral upper arm (LUA) pathway is a route of superficial 
lymphatic drainage that bypasses the axilla by draining to the deltopectoral, 
clavicular, and cervical lymph nodes. Despite the fact that anatomic variations 
of the LUA pathway have been implicated in breast cancer-related lymphedema 
(BCRL) risk after axillary lymph node dissection (ALND), the incidence of the 
LUA pathway variations in the healthy population has never been reported.
METHODS: Healthy female volunteers underwent bilateral lymphatic mapping of the 
upper extremities with indocyanine green (ICG) lymphography. ICG was injected in 
six standard sites in the hand/wrist and upper arm. Major anatomic variations of 
the LUA pathway were recorded including bundle phenotype (long, short, or 
absent), proximal visualization sites, and forearm pathway continuation to the 
long bundle phenotype.
RESULTS: 90 arms of 45 volunteers were included. The LUA pathway was present in 
99% of arms and a long-versus-short bundle phenotype was observed in 71% versus 
28% of arms. When the long bundle was present, it was formed by continuity with 
the forearm posterior radial channel alone (47%), posterior ulnar channel alone 
(34%), or both channels (19%). The LUA pathway was traced proximally to the 
deltopectoral groove in 89% of arms and to the axilla in 11% of arms.
CONCLUSIONS: We observed similar proportions of arms with long and short bundle 
phenotypes in comparison to our previous report of the LUA pathway in breast 
cancer patients with nodal disease. Defining the incidence of the LUA pathway 
with its variations in the general population is important as variations in this 
pathway may have implications for an individual's risk of developing BCRL.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer 
Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s12282-025-01742-2
PMID: 40665199

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: Research 
reported in this publication was supported in part by the National Heart, Lung, 
and Blood Institute of the National Institutes of Health under award number 
R01HL157991 (D.S.) and the NIH Common Fund under award number U54HL165440 
(D.S.). James Fanning and Angela Chen are supported by the 2024 JOBST Lymphatic 
Research Grant awarded by the Boston Lymphatic Symposium, Inc. Madeleine Givant 
is supported by the 2025 JOBST Lymphatic Research Grant awarded by the Boston 
Lymphatic Symposium, Inc. All other authors have no financial disclosures to 
report (S.T., E.T., A.F., and K.D.). Research involving human participants: 
Institutional review board approval was obtained (protocol #2021P-000209). All 
procedures performed in studies involving human participants were in accordance 
with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research 
committee and with the 1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments or 
comparable ethical standards. Informed consent: Informed consent was obtained 
from all individual participants included in the study. All volunteers provided 
informed verbal and written consent prior to study enrollment. Volunteers were 
informed on the study purpose, study procedures, risk and benefits, and the 
collection and handling of confidential data. Volunteers were free to withdraw 
at any time, without reason and without cost. Volunteers provided informed 
consent that no identifiable information would be used in publications regarding 
data generated from the study.


43. Clin Transl Oncol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s12094-025-03983-1. Online ahead
of  print.

Effect of exercise during chemotherapy infusion on symptomatology and quality of 
life in women with breast cancer: a randomized controlled trial.

Dantas DB(1), Weber VMR(2), de Oliveira Bender JM(3), Silva AC(3), Diniz LSC(3), 
Cavazzotto TG(3), da Silva DF(4), Queiroga MR(3).

Author information:
(1)State University of Londrina, Celso Garcia Cid Highway, Pr 445 Km 380, 
University Campus, Postal Box 10.011, Londrina, PR, CEP 86.057-970, Brazil. 
dantasdb1488@gmail.com.
(2)State University of Londrina, Celso Garcia Cid Highway, Pr 445 Km 380, 
University Campus, Postal Box 10.011, Londrina, PR, CEP 86.057-970, Brazil.
(3)Central-West State University, Paraná, Brazil.
(4)Bishop's University, Sherbrooke, QC, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of aerobic exercise performed during 
chemotherapy infusion on symptom burden and quality of life in women with breast 
cancer.
METHODS: This single-blind randomized controlled trial included 39 women with 
breast cancer undergoing chemotherapy at a specialized oncology hospital in 
Brazil. Participants were randomly assigned to an exercise group (n = 18) or 
control group (n = 21). The intervention group performed low-intensity aerobic 
cycling with a portable ergometer for 20 min during infusion sessions 2 through 
6. Fatigue (Cancer Fatigue Scale) and quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30) were 
assessed before the second and after the sixth infusion. Chemotherapy-related 
symptoms were also monitored via telephone recall 48-72 h post-infusion. Data 
were analyzed using GEE for symptom scores and repeated measures ANOVA for 
fatigue and quality of life outcomes.
RESULTS: Of the 51 breast cancer patients recruited, 39 completed the study. No 
significant baseline differences were found between the intervention (exercise) 
and control groups. There were no significant changes in quality of life or 
fatigue scores (EORTC-QLQ-C30 and CFS) over time between groups. However, the 
intervention group showed a significant reduction in the severity of alopecia 
between chemotherapy sessions, which was not observed in the control group.
CONCLUSION: While exercise during chemotherapy did not significantly impact 
overall quality of life or fatigue, it may help reduce the perceived severity of 
certain treatment-related symptoms such as alopecia.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Federación de Sociedades 
Españolas de Oncología (FESEO).

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-025-03983-1
PMID: 40665168

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to disclose.


44. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25514. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-96675-3.

New benzimidazole-triazole glycoconjugates as anti-cancer agents and EGFR 
inhibitors.

Srour AM(1), El-Bayaa MN(2)(3), Temirak A(4), Alanzy AL(2), Awad HM(5), Saleh 
A(6), Saleh MG(7), El-Sayed WA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutic Chemistry, Pharmaceutical and Drug Industries 
Research Institute, National Research Centre, Dokki, Giza, 12622, Egypt. 
am.srour@nrc.sci.eg.
(2)Department of Chemistry, College of Science, Qassim University, Buraidah, 
51452, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Photochemistry Department, National Research Centre, Dokki, Giza, 12622, 
Egypt.
(4)Chemistry of Natural and Microbial Products Department, Pharmaceutical and 
Drug Industries Research Institute, National Research Centre, Dokki, Giza, 
12622, Egypt.
(5)Tanning Materials and Leather Technology Department, National Research 
Centre, Dokki, Giza, 12622, Egypt.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, Princess Nourah 
bint Abdulrahman University, P.O. Box 84428, Riyadh, 11671, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Chemistry, College of Science, Northern Border University, 
Arar, Saudi Arabia.

A new series of glycosyl heterocyclic scaffolds, 5a-10b with N-glycosidic 
linkage, were synthesized, starting with 2-acetyl-1H-benzimidazole as a 
precursor of the propargyl-derived substrates (2) and (3), which were then 
converted to the target 1,2,3-triazole glycosides (8a-10b) bearing unprotected 
hydroxyl groups. The new chemical entities have been assessed for their 
cytotoxic properties on diverse human cancer cell lines, namely HepG-2 (human 
liver cancer), HCT-116 (human colorectal), and MCF-7 (human breast cancer), in 
addition to a human normal cell line (BJ-1), following the LDH assay and with 
erlotinib and doxorubicin as the standard references. Most of the tested 
compounds demonstrated potent activity, particularly the triazole glycosides 6b, 
7b, 8b, 9a, 9b, 10a, and 10b. Compound 9a was the best against all targeted cell 
lines, particularly HepG-2 and HCT-116, by IC50 values of 1.64 ± 0.11 and 
5.00 ± 0.51 µM, superior to that of erlotinib, IC50 = 2.07 ± 0.07 and 
5.14 ± 0.33 µM, respectively. Furthermore, it showed a safe profile against the 
tested normal cell line BJ-1. The triazole glycosides 8a-10b were investigated 
to assess their capability to inhibit EGFR. Remarkably, 9a and 9b exhibited 
noteworthy inhibitory activity against EGFR (IC50 = 0.069 ± 0.003 and 
0.075 ± 0.003 µM, respectively) in comparison with erlotinib, the reference drug 
(0.048 ± 0.002 µM). Molecular docking confirmed these findings, suggesting that 
the incorporation of the α,β-unsaturated ketone function enhances compounds' 
stability within the EGFR active site. Thus, these results indicate that 
compounds 9a and 9b disclosed potential anti-cancer agents targeting EGFR 
kinase.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-96675-3
PMID: 40665148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


45. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 16;15(1):25680. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-09420-1.

Design, synthesis and evaluation of benzodioxole and bromofuran tethered 
1,2,4-triazole hybrids as potential anti breast cancer agents with computational 
insights.

R M(1), Hakkimane SS(2), B S S(3), Gaonkar SL(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal Academy of 
Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Manipal Institute of Technology Bengaluru, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India.
(3)Department of Physics, Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering, JSS 
Technical Institutions Campus, JSS Science and Technology University, Mysuru, 
Karnataka, 570006, India.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal Academy of 
Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India. sl.gaonkar@manipal.edu.

1,2,4-Triazole derivatives are the focus of extensive research in medicinal 
chemistry because of their diverse biological activities, particularly their 
potential as anticancer agents. In this study, we designed and synthesized six 
compounds featuring benzo[d][1,3]dioxole and 5-bromofuran tethered to 
1,2,4-triazole hybrids. This was achieved through an efficient four-step 
protocol with reproducible results. The characterization of the 1,2,4-triazoles 
was conducted via various analytical techniques, including FTIR, 1H NMR, 13C 
NMR, and mass spectrometry. The in vitro anti-breast cancer activities of 
synthesized 1,2,4-triazols were evaluated against the MCF-7 cell line using the 
MTT assay. Among all the synthesized compounds, compound 12b demonstrated an 
excellent IC50 value of 3.54 ± 0.265 µg/mL. Additionally, in silico studies, 
such as molecular docking to predict the orientation of the compounds, molecular 
dynamics simulations to evaluate binding stability with the target protein, 
drug-likeness studies to evaluate Lipinski's rule of five and Jorgensen's rule 
of three, DFT analysis to determine the energy gap of the frontier molecular 
orbitals (FMOs) and the molecular electrostatic potential (MEP) for identifying 
sites of nucleophilic and electrophilic attacks, were also conducted.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-09420-1
PMID: 40665119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: This study is not applicable 
because it does not involve the use of animals or humans.


46. J Ultrasound. 2025 Jul 16. doi: 10.1007/s40477-025-01037-4. Online ahead of 
print.

Accuracy of shear wave elastography in diagnosing axillary lymph node metastasis 
in patients with suspicious axillary lymph nodes: development of a predictive 
nomogram.

Kritcharoen W(1), Pradaranon V(2), Rohitopakarn P(2), Kaewpiboon W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Chulabhorn Hospital, 
Chulabhorn Royal Academy, Bangkok, Thailand. wethaka.kri@cra.ac.th.
(2)Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla University, 
Songkhla, Thailand.
(3)Tanyawej Breast Center, Songklanagarind Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, Prince 
of Songkla University, Songkhla, Thailand.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate shear wave elastography [SWE] for 
predicting axillary lymph node metastasis in breast cancer patients.
METHODS: Thirty-nine patients with suspicious axillary lymph nodes (BI-RADS ≥ 4 
and abnormal B-mode ultrasound features) underwent B-mode ultrasound, strain 
elastography, and shear wave elastography (SWE) prior to ultrasound-guided core 
needle biopsy. Two experienced radiologists independently assessed lymph node 
appearance, cortical thickness, vascularity, as well as shear wave and strain 
elastography using the Siemens ACUSON Sequoia system. Statistical analysis 
compared imaging parameters between benign and malignant nodes using the 
Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Diagnostic performance was evaluated using receiver 
operating characteristic (ROC) curves. A predictive nomogram incorporating 
B-mode, strain elastography, and SWE findings was developed to improve 
diagnostic accuracy.
RESULTS: Malignant nodes showed significantly higher stiffness and velocity 
[p < 0.05]. Cut points for diagnostic accuracy were determined by using the 
Youden index. Combining B-Mode and elastography improved sensitivity and 
specificity. A predictive nomogram incorporating SWE, strain elastography, and 
B-Mode appearance achieved high diagnostic efficacy [sensitivity = 0.96, 
specificity = 0.77, PPV = 0.89, NPV = 0.91].
CONCLUSIONS: SWE demonstrates potential as a non-invasive tool for axillary 
nodal assessment in breast cancer patients. It effectively distinguishes between 
benign and malignant axillary lymph nodes, offering promise for optimizing 
management. The predictive nomogram, incorporating SWE, strain elastography, and 
B-Mode appearance, provides a practical tool for pre-operative decision-making, 
enhancing the diagnostic process and potentially improving the management of 
breast cancer patients.

© 2025. Società Italiana di Ultrasonologia in Medicina e Biologia (SIUMB).

DOI: 10.1007/s40477-025-01037-4
PMID: 40665104

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Funding: The authors received no 
funding for this work from any institutional or external sources. Conflict of 
interest: The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest. Research 
involving human participants and/or animals: This study was approved by Human 
Research Ethics Commitee, Prince of Songkla University, approval number 
REC.64-032-7-4. Informed consent: All participants were informed and signed the 
consent document before enrolling in the study.


47. NPJ Precis Oncol. 2025 Jul 15;9(1):238. doi: 10.1038/s41698-025-01019-z.

Association of circulating immuno-oncology biomarkers with breast cancer risk: 
insights from two prospective cohorts.

Zheng J(#)(1), Suo C(#)(2)(3), Wu Y(#)(4), Cao B(1), Yuan Z(3), Jiang Y(3)(5), 
Liu Z(3)(5), Ye W(6)(7), Yang H(8)(9), Chen X(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Public Health, 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, and the Key Laboratory 
of Public Health Safety of Ministry of Education, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Fudan University Taizhou Institute of Health Sciences, Taizhou, Jiangsu, 
China.
(4)Department of Health Inspection and Quarantine, School of Public Health, 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Human Phenome Institute, and 
School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Public Health, 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China. ywm@fjmu.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden. ywm@fjmu.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Public Health, 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China. haomin.yang@ki.se.
(9)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden. haomin.yang@ki.se.
(10)Fudan University Taizhou Institute of Health Sciences, Taizhou, Jiangsu, 
China. xingdongchen@fudan.edu.cn.
(11)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Human Phenome Institute, and 
School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. 
xingdongchen@fudan.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Immuno-oncology biomarkers are promising tools for cancer risk assessment and 
early detection. To identify and validate their associations with breast cancer, 
nested case-control studies within the Taizhou Longitudinal Study (TZL) cohort 
and the UK biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKB-PPP) were conducted, 
comprising 195 and 881 incident breast cancer patients, together with their 
matched controls. Among the 92 plasma proteins tested by the Olink 
Immuno-oncology panel, 11 proteins were associated with breast cancer risk in 
the TZL cohort after multiple testing correction. Notably, hepatocyte growth 
factor (HGF) was validated in the UKB-PPP, particularly among postmenopausal 
women (OR = 1.13, 95% CI = 1.03-1.24). The association was stronger with 
Estrogen Receptor-negative breast cancer and confirmed by Mendelian 
Randomization analysis. Additionally, HGF mediated the effects of Healthy 
Lifestyle Index (27.17%) and BMI (19.79%) on breast cancer risk. Therefore, HGF 
could be an intervention target by either medicines or lifestyle changes to 
improve the prevention and treatment of breast cancer.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41698-025-01019-z
PMID: 40665092

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


48. Nat Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03790-9. Online ahead of print.

Deep phenotyping of health-disease continuum in the Human Phenotype Project.

Reicher L(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Shilo S(#)(1)(2)(4)(5), Godneva A(1)(2), Lutsker 
G(1)(2), Zahavi L(1)(2), Shoer S(1)(2), Krongauz D(1)(2), Rein M(1)(2), Kohn 
S(1)(2), Segev T(1)(2), Schlesinger Y(1)(2), Barak D(1)(2), Levine Z(1)(2), 
Keshet A(1)(2), Shaulitch R(2), Lotan-Pompan M(1)(2), Elkan M(6), Talmor-Barkan 
Y(4)(7), Aviv Y(4)(7), Dadiani M(8), Tsodyks Y(8), Gal-Yam EN(9), Leibovitzh 
H(10), Werner L(10), Tzadok R(10), Maharshak N(10), Koga S(11), Glick-Gorman 
Y(12), Stossel C(12), Raitses-Gurevich M(12), Golan T(4)(12), Dhir R(13), 
Reisner Y(1)(14), Weinberger A(1)(2), Rossman H(14)(15), Song L(15)(16), Xing 
EP(17)(18), Segal E(19)(20).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovot, Israel.
(2)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, 
Israel.
(3)Lis Maternity and Women's Hospital, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel 
Aviv, Israel.
(4)Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, 
Israel.
(5)The Jesse Z and Sara Lea Shafer Institute for Endocrinology and Diabetes, 
National Center for Childhood Diabetes, Schneider Children's Medical Center of 
Israel, Petah Tikva, Israel.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine A, Shamir Medical Center (Assaf Harofeh), 
Zerifin, Israel.
(7)Department of Cardiology, Rabin Medical Center, Petah-Tikva, Israel.
(8)Cancer Research Center, Sheba Medical Center, Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(9)Institute of Breast Oncology, the Jusidman Cancer Center, Sheba Medical 
Center, Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(10)The Department of Gastroenterology and Liver Disease, Tel Aviv Medical 
Center, affiliated to the Grey Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine, SBS Shizuoka Health Promotion Center, 
Shizuoka, Japan.
(12)The Jusidman Cancer Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
(13)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland.
(14)Pheno.AI, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
(15)Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence, Abu Dhabi, UAE.
(16)GenBio AI, Palo Alto, CA, USA.
(17)Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence, Abu Dhabi, UAE. 
Eric.Xing@mbzuai.ac.ae.
(18)Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. 
Eric.Xing@mbzuai.ac.ae.
(19)Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute 
of Science, Rehovot, Israel. eran.segal@weizmann.ac.il.
(20)Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence, Abu Dhabi, UAE. 
eran.segal@weizmann.ac.il.
(#)Contributed equally

The Human Phenotype Project (HPP) is a large-scale deep-phenotype prospective 
cohort. To date, approximately 28,000 participants have enrolled, with more than 
13,000 completing their initial visit. The project is aimed at identifying novel 
molecular signatures with diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic value, and at 
developing artificial intelligence (AI)-based predictive models for disease 
onset and progression. The HPP includes longitudinal profiling encompassing 
medical history, lifestyle and nutrition, anthropometrics, blood tests, 
continuous glucose and sleep monitoring, imaging and multi-omics data, including 
genetics, transcriptomics, microbiome (gut, vaginal and oral), metabolomics and 
immune profiling. Analysis of these data highlights the variation of phenotypes 
with age and ethnicity and unravels molecular signatures of disease by 
comparison with matched healthy controls. Leveraging extensive dietary and 
lifestyle data, we identify associations between lifestyle factors and health 
outcomes. Finally, we present a multi-modal foundation AI model, trained using 
self-supervised learning on diet and continuous-glucose-monitoring data, that 
outperforms existing methods in predicting disease onset. This framework can be 
extended to integrate other modalities and act as a personalized digital twin. 
In summary, we present a deeply phenotyped cohort that serves as a platform for 
advancing biomarker discovery, enabling the development of multi-modal AI models 
and personalized medicine approaches.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03790-9
PMID: 40665053

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Y.R., H.R. and Y.T.B are 
employees at Pheno.AI. A.K., A.W. and E.S. are paid consultants of Pheno.AI. 
N.M. has received speaking and consulting fees from Pfizer, Abbvie, Lilly, 
Takeda, Janssen, Ferring, BiomX, BMS, Nestle and Teva and grant support from 
Takeda, Janssen, Abbott, Abbvie, Pfizer, BMS, Corundum Innovation, Nestle and 
the Helmsely Charitable Trust. The other authors declare no competing interests.


49. Strahlenther Onkol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s00066-025-02441-9. Online
ahead  of print.

Immune-sparing potential of isocentric lateral decubitus positioning in adjuvant 
whole-breast radiotherapy.

Cheptea C(1), Kirova Y(2), Loap P(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Proton Therapy Center (CPO), Institut Curie, Orsay, France.
(2)Department of radiation oncology, Institut Curie, Paris, France.
(3)Proton Therapy Center (CPO), Institut Curie, Orsay, France. 
pierre.loap@gmail.com.
(4)Department of radiation oncology, Institut Curie, Paris, France. 
pierre.loap@gmail.com.
(5)Laboratoire d'Imagerie Translationnelle en Oncologie (LITO), Institut Curie, 
Orsay, France. pierre.loap@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Lymphocytes are among the most radiosensitive cell types, and 
low-dose exposure during radiotherapy has been associated with measurable immune 
suppression. In breast cancer treatment, systemic immune exposure is partly 
driven by irradiation of highly vascularized organs such as the heart, lungs, 
and liver. The axillary lymph nodes also play a critical role in initiating 
antitumor immune responses. Isocentric lateral decubitus (ILD) positioning, by 
modifying the beam orientation, may reduce incidental exposure to these 
immune-related structures. This study aimed to evaluate the potential of ILD to 
spare both circulating immune cells and axillary lymph nodes compared to 
standard supine positioning during whole-breast irradiation (WBI).
METHODS: Eight patients with localized breast cancer treated with 
breast-conserving surgery and adjuvant WBI (without nodal irradiation) were 
included in this retrospective dosimetric study. Each patient underwent CT 
simulation and treatment planning in both supine and ILD positions. The 
estimated dose to circulating immune cells (EDIC) was calculated using a model 
based on mean doses to the lungs, heart, liver, and whole body. The level I 
axillary region was retrospectively contoured, and both the mean dose and D95 
were extracted. Dosimetric comparisons between positions were performed using 
paired Wilcoxon signed-rank tests.
RESULTS: Isocentric lateral decubitus positioning significantly reduced the EDIC 
compared to the supine position (median 0.56 Gy vs. 1.12 Gy; p < 0.01). Lung, 
heart, and liver doses were also significantly lower. The axillary dose was 
reduced, with the mean dose decreasing from 10.2 to 3.8 Gy (p = 0.016) and D95% 
from 0.82 to 0.35 Gy (p = 0.039).
CONCLUSION: Isocentric lateral decubitus positioning significantly reduces both 
systemic and regional immune irradiation during adjuvant WBI. These findings 
suggest that ILD may help to preserve immune function, particularly in 
immunogenic subtypes such as triple-negative breast cancer, and support its 
consideration in treatment planning when nodal irradiation is not indicated.

© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-025-02441-9
PMID: 40665044

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: C. Cheptea, Y. Kirova, and 
P. Loap declare that they have no competing interests.


50. Br J Cancer. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41416-025-03116-z. Online ahead of 
print.

Fatigue in long-term cancer survivors: prevalence, associated factors, and 
mortality. A prospective population-based study.

Thong MSY(1), Doege D(2), Koch-Gallenkamp L(3), Bertram H(4), Eberle A(5), 
Holleczek B(6), Nennecke A(7), Waldmann A(8), Zeissig SR(9)(10), Pritzkuleit 
R(11), Brähler E(12)(13), Brenner H(3)(14), Arndt V(2).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Survivorship, Division of Clinical Epidemiology and Aging Research, 
German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany. m.thong@dkfz.de.
(2)Cancer Survivorship, Division of Clinical Epidemiology and Aging Research, 
German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)Division of Clinical Epidemiology and Aging Research, DKFZ, Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(4)Cancer Registry of North Rhine-Westphalia, Bochum, Germany.
(5)Bremen Cancer Registry, Leibniz Institute for Prevention Research and 
Epidemiology - BIPS, Bremen, Germany.
(6)Saarland Cancer Registry, Saarbrücken, Germany.
(7)Hamburg Cancer Registry, Hamburg, Germany.
(8)Institute for Social Medicine and Epidemiology, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, 
Germany.
(9)Institute of Clinical Epidemiology and Biometry (ICE-B), Julius Maximilian 
University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(10)Cancer Registry of Rhineland-Palatinate, Mainz, Germany.
(11)Cancer Registry of Schleswig-Holstein, Lübeck, Germany.
(12)Department of Medical Psychology and Medical Sociology, University Hospital 
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(13)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, University Hospital 
Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(14)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), DKFZ, Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: We compared fatigue severity in breast, prostate or colorectal 
cancer survivors 5-16 years post-diagnosis with cancer-free controls, and 
examined factors associated with fatigue and its association with all-cause 
mortality in survivors.
METHODS: Participants of the CAncEr Survivorship - A multi-Regional (CAESAR) 
study completed the Fatigue Assessment Questionnaire (FAQ) between 2009 and 
2011. The FAQ assesses affective, cognitive, and physical fatigue, and sleep 
problems. We derived the odds of fatigue using logistic regression with the 75th 
percentile of population norms as the cut-off. All-cause mortality (up to end 
2021) was estimated using Cox regression models.
RESULTS: The sample comprised 6057 survivors, of whom approximately one-third 
reported affective, cognitive, or physical fatigue. Demographic (age, 
relationship), clinical (chemotherapy), comorbidity (depression), lifestyle, and 
psychological factors were associated with higher odds of fatigue symptoms and 
total fatigue. Fatigue symptoms, predominantly physical fatigue, were strongly 
associated with mortality (unadjusted hazard ratios (HRs) ranged from 1.48 to 
2.40). The HRs were attenuated after adjustment for comorbidities and depressive 
symptoms, although affective and physical fatigue remained independent risk 
factors for mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Demographic, clinical, comorbidity, lifestyle, and psychological 
factors were associated with fatigue in long-term survivors. Fatigued survivors 
have a higher mortality risk. Lowering the burden of fatigue by a comprehensive 
approach might result in better survival.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41416-025-03116-z
PMID: 40665014

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Ethics approval and consent to participate: The ethics 
committee of the University of Heidelberg (S499/2012) and the responsible local 
ethics committees of the participating cancer registries approved the CAESAR 
study. All participants provided written informed consent. All methods were 
performed in accordance with the relevant guidelines and regulations.


51. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25492. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10346-x.

The inner nuclear membrane protein, Banf1, has an essential role in triple 
negative breast cancer cell proliferation and survival.

Rose M(1), Burgess JT(1), Cheong CM(1), Richard I(1)(2), Suraweera A(1), Adams 
MN(1)(3), Duijf PHG(4), O'Byrne KJ(1)(3)(4)(5), Richard DJ(1)(3), Bolderson 
E(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Genomics Program, Centre for Genomics and Personalised Health, School 
of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health, Queensland University of Technology, 
Kelvin Grove, Brisbane, Australia.
(2)Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology (MRC LMB), Cambridge 
Biomedical Campus, Francis Crick Ave, Trumpington, Cambridge, CB2 0QH, UK.
(3)Queensland University of Technology (QUT), Translational Research Institute, 
Woolloongabba, Brisbane, Australia.
(4)Centre for Cancer Biology, University of South Australia & SA Pathology, 
Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(5)Cancer Services, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Ipswich Road, Woolloongabba, 
Brisbane, QLD, 4102, Australia.
(6)Cancer Genomics Program, Centre for Genomics and Personalised Health, School 
of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health, Queensland University of Technology, 
Kelvin Grove, Brisbane, Australia. emma.bolderson@qut.edu.au.
(7)Queensland University of Technology (QUT), Translational Research Institute, 
Woolloongabba, Brisbane, Australia. emma.bolderson@qut.edu.au.
(8)Queensland University of Technology, 60 Musk Avenue, Kelvin Grove, Brisbane, 
Australia. emma.bolderson@qut.edu.au.

Triple negative breast cancers (TNBCs) are a heterogenous subcategory of breast 
cancers which have significantly worse survival outcomes compared to other 
breast cancer subtypes. However, limited advances have been made towards a 
targeted TNBC therapeutic and traditional chemotherapies remain the frontline 
therapy. Therefore, this study aimed to examine the therapeutic potential of a 
novel TNBC target, Barrier-to-Autointegration Factor 1 (Banf1), including 
determining Banf1 expression and cellular localisation in non-malignant breast 
cells and a panel of TNBC cell lines. Bioinformatic analysis of patient samples 
demonstrated that Banf1 is overexpressed in all breast cancer stages and 
subtypes. Banf1 depletion inhibited proliferation and induced mitotic arrest in 
TNBC cells via loss of nuclear envelope integrity and aberrant nuclear 
morphology, inducing TNBC tumour cell-specific cell death. These findings 
highlight the significant overexpression and functional involvement of Banf1 in 
TNBC progression and suggests that it may have potential as a novel anti-cancer 
target, supporting further investigation.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10346-x
PMID: 40664994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare competing financial interests; EB, DR and KO are founders of Carpe Vitae 
Pharmaceuticals. EB, JB, MA, KO, DR are inventors on provisional patent 
applications filed by Queensland University of Technology. The remaining authors 
do not have any competing interest. Ethical approval: Experimental procedures 
were approved by the Queensland University of Technology, Human. 212 Research 
Ethics Committee (approval numbers 1700000940 and 1900000269).


52. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25473. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10904-3.

Efficacy of urolithin B-Loaded mesoporous silica nanoparticles modified with 
graphene quantum Dots against MCF-7 breast Cancer cells.

Nezhadhossein B(1), Afshar AS(2), Homayouni Tabrizi M(3), Nematpour FS(1), 
Mohtashami M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Ne.C., Islamic Azad University, Neyshabur, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Ne.C., Islamic Azad University, Neyshabur, Iran. 
asafshar@iau.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Biology, Ma.C., Islamic Azad University, Mashhad, Iran. 
mhomayouni6@iau.ac.ir.

This study investigated the anti-cancer effects of GQD@MSN-Uro-B nanoparticles 
(NPs) on the MCF7 cancer cell line, focusing on their antioxidant properties. 
GQD@MSN-Uro-B was synthesized by first preparing graphene quantum dots (GQDs) 
from graphene oxide (GO) through a hydrothermal method, followed by the sol-gel 
synthesis of mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSNs). The GQDs were then 
covalently bonded to the MSNs, and Uro-B was loaded onto the resulting 
nanocarriers. Characterization using DLS revealed that GQD@MSN-Uro-B exhibited a 
Z-average particle size of 223.75 nm and a zeta potential of - 22.59 mV, 
indicating good stability compared to MSN-Uro-B@GQD, which had a larger 
Z-average size of 241.02 nm and a zeta potential of - 14.99 mV. The NPs 
demonstrated significant cytotoxicity with an IC50 of 10 µg/mL against MCF7 
cells. At the same time, MSN-Uro-B@GQD had an IC50 of 83.19 µg/mL, effectively 
inducing apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner, with early apoptosis rates 
increasing from 8.33% in untreated cells to 37.4% at 12 µg/mL. Gene expression 
analysis revealed significant increases in TNF (from 0.92 ± 0.008 to 
1.14 ± 0.012), caspase-9 (from 0.85 ± 0.008 to 3.3 ± 0.012), and p21 (from 
0.87 ± 0.008 to 1.32 ± 0.012), indicating enhanced apoptotic activity. 
Additionally, the antioxidant capacity was validated by significant free radical 
scavenging, with 76% inhibition in the ABTS assay and 33.93% in the DPPH assay 
at 2000 µg/mL. Overall, these findings highlight the potential of GQD@MSN-Uro-B 
nanoparticles as a promising candidate for targeted cancer therapy, combining 
effective cytotoxicity and antioxidant properties, warranting further 
investigation in clinical settings.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10904-3
PMID: 40664936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


53. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25478. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10058-2.

Learning quality-guided multi-layer features for classifying visual types with 
ball sports application.

Huang X(1), Liu T(2), Yu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education, Wuhan Institute of Technology, 430070, 
WuHan, China.
(2)Department of Physical Education, Wuhan Institute of Technology, 430070, 
WuHan, China. 15090601@wit.edu.cn.
(3)Intelligent Manufacturing College, Jinhua University of Vocational 
Technology, 321007, Jinhua, Zhejiang, China. yueyu1778@gmail.com.

Nowadays, breast cancer is one of the leading causes of death among women. This 
highlights the need for precise X-ray image analysis in the medical and imaging 
fields. In this study, we present an advanced perceptual deep learning framework 
that extracts key features from large X-ray datasets, mimicking human visual 
perception. We begin by using a large dataset of breast cancer images and apply 
the BING objectness measure to identify relevant visual and semantic patches. To 
manage the large number of object-aware patches, we propose a new ranking 
technique in the weak annotation context. This technique identifies the patches 
that are most aligned with human visual judgment. These key patches are then 
aggregated to extract meaningful features from each image. We leverage these 
features to train a multi-class SVM classifier, which categorizes the images 
into various breast cancer stages. The effectiveness of our deep learning model 
is demonstrated through extensive comparative analysis and visual examples.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10058-2
PMID: 40664935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


54. Eur Radiol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s00330-025-11812-w. Online ahead of
print.

Enhancing breast positioning quality through real-time AI feedback.

Sexauer R(1)(2), Riehle F(3), Borkowski K(4), Ruppert C(4), Potthast S(5), 
Schmidt N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Kantonsspital Baselland, 
Liestal, Switzerland. raphael.sexauer@ksbl.ch.
(2)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Basel, 
Basel, Switzerland. raphael.sexauer@ksbl.ch.
(3)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Basel, 
Basel, Switzerland.
(4)b-RayZ, Schlieren, Switzerland.
(5)Institute of Radiology, Limmatthal Hospital, Schlieren, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: Enhance mammography quality to increase cancer detection by 
implementing continuous AI-driven feedback mechanisms, ensuring reliable, 
consistent, and high-quality screening by the 'Perfect', 'Good', 'Moderate', and 
'Inadequate' (PGMI) criteria.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: To assess the impact of the AI software 'b-boxTM' on 
mammography quality, we conducted a comparative analysis of PGMI scores. We 
evaluated scores 50 days before (A) and after the software's implementation in 
2021 (B), along with assessments made in the first week of August 2022 (C1) and 
2023 (C2), comparing them to evaluations conducted by two readers. Except for 
postsurgical patients, we included all diagnostic and screening mammograms from 
one tertiary hospital.
RESULTS: A total of 4577 mammograms from 1220 women (mean age: 59, range: 21-94, 
standard deviation: 11.18) were included. 1728 images were obtained before (A) 
and 2330 images after the 2021 software implementation (B), along with 269 
images in 2022 (C1) and 250 images in 2023 (C2). The results indicated a 
significant improvement in diagnostic image quality (p < 0.01). The percentage 
of 'Perfect' examinations rose from 22.34% to 32.27%, while 'Inadequate' images 
decreased from 13.31% to 5.41% in 2021, continuing the positive trend with 4.46% 
and 3.20% 'inadequate' images in 2022 and 2023, respectively (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Using a reliable software platform to perform AI-driven quality 
evaluation in real-time has the potential to make lasting improvements in image 
quality, support radiographers' professional growth, and elevate institutional 
quality standards and documentation simultaneously.
KEY POINTS: Question How can AI-powered quality assessment reduce inadequate 
mammographic quality, which is known to impact sensitivity and increase the risk 
of interval cancers? Findings AI implementation decreased 'inadequate' 
mammograms from 13.31% to 3.20% and substantially improved parenchyma 
visualization, with consistent subgroup trends. Clinical relevance By reducing 
'inadequate' mammograms and enhancing imaging quality, AI-driven tools improve 
diagnostic reliability and support better outcomes in breast cancer screening.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-025-11812-w
PMID: 40664864

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standards. Guarantor: 
The scientific guarantor of this publication is Noemi Schmidt. Conflict of 
interest: Two of the authors (Karol Borkowski and Carlotta Ruppert) of this 
manuscript declare relationships with the following company: b-rayZ. Their 
involvement was restricted to providing software support and did not affect the 
research findings. The remaining authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Statistics and biometry: One of the authors (Raphael Sexauer) has significant 
statistical expertise; however, no complex statistical methods were necessary 
for this paper. Informed consent: Written informed consent was waived by the 
Institutional Review Board (retrospective nature). Ethical approval: 
Institutional Review Board approval was obtained. Study subjects or cohorts 
overlap: No study subjects or cohorts have been previously reported. 
Methodology: Retrospective Observational study Performed at one institution


55. Nat Genet. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41588-025-02250-x. Online ahead of
print.

Germline genetic variation impacts clonal hematopoiesis landscape and 
progression to malignancy.

Liu J(1)(2), Tran D(2), Xue L(3), Wiley BJ(2), Vlasschaert C(4), Watson CJ(5), 
MacGregor HAJ(5)(6), Zong X(7), Chan ICC(2), Das I(2), Uddin MM(3), Niroula 
A(3)(8)(9), Griffin G(3), Ebert BL(3), Mack T(10), Pershad Y(10), Sharber B(10), 
Berger M(11), Zehir A(11), Ptashkin R(11), Levine RL(11), Papaemmanuil E(11), 
Joseph V(11), Gao T(11), Kemel Y(11), Mandelker D(11), Stopsack KH(12), Pharoah 
PDP(13), Mukherjee S(11), Ding L(2), Cao Y(7)(14)(15), Walter MJ(2), Blundell 
JR(5), Chatterjee N(16), Offit K(11), Godley LA(17), Link DC(#)(2), Stadler 
ZK(#)(11), Bick AG(#)(10), Natarajan P(#)(3), Bolton KL(#)(18).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Biology Graduate Program, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, MO, USA.
(2)Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(3)Program in Medical and Population Genetics and Cardiovascular Disease 
Initiative, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Early Cancer Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(6)Centre for Cancer Genetic Epidemiology, Department of Public Health and 
Primary Care, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(7)Division of Public Health Sciences, Department of Surgery, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(8)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Institute of 
Biomedicine, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(9)SciLifeLab, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(10)Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, TN, USA.
(11)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.
(12)Department of Epidemiologic Methods and Etiologic Research, Leibniz 
Institute for Prevention Research and Epidemiology-BIPS and Faculty of Human and 
Health Sciences, University of Bremen, Bremen, Germany.
(13)Department of Computational Biomedicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(14)Alvin J. Siteman Cancer Center, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, MO, USA.
(15)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Washington University 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(16)Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(17)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, and the Robert H. 
Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(18)Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. bolton@wustl.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

With age, clonal expansions occur pervasively across normal tissues yet only in 
rare instances lead to cancer, despite being driven by well-established cancer 
drivers. Characterization of the factors that influence clonal progression is 
needed to inform interventional approaches. Germline genetic variation 
influences cancer risk and shapes tumor mutational profile, but its influence on 
the mutational landscape of normal tissues is not well known. Here we studied 
the impact of germline genetic variation on clonal hematopoiesis (CH) in 731,835 
individuals. We identified 22 new CH-predisposition genes, most of which 
predispose to CH driven by specific mutational events. CH-predisposition genes 
contribute to unique somatic landscapes, reflecting the influence of germline 
genetic backdrop on gene-specific CH fitness. Correspondingly, somatic-germline 
interactions influence the risk of CH progression to hematologic malignancies. 
These results demonstrate that germline genetic variation influences somatic 
evolution in the blood, findings that likely extend to other tissues.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41588-025-02250-x
PMID: 40664769

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: K.L.B. reports research 
grants and personal fees from Servier. E.P. is the co-founder of and holds a 
fiduciary role in Isabl Inc. P.N. reports research grants from Allelica, Amgen, 
Apple, Boston Scientific, Genentech or Roche and Novartis; personal fees from 
Allelica, Apple, AstraZeneca, Blackstone Life Sciences, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Creative Education Concepts, CRISPR Therapeutics, Eli Lilly & Co, Esperion 
Therapeutics, Foresite Capital, Foresite Labs, Genentech or Roche, GV, 
HeartFlow, Magnet Biomedicine, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, TenSixteen Bio and 
Tourmaline Bio; equity in Bolt, Candela, Mercury, MyOme, Parameter Health, 
Preciseli and TenSixteen Bio; and spousal employment at Vertex Pharmaceuticals, 
all unrelated to the present work. R.L.L. is on the Supervisory Board of QIAGEN 
(compensation or equity), a co-founder of or board member at Ajax (equity) and a 
scientific advisor to Mission Bio, Kurome, Anovia, Bakx, Syndax, Scorpion, 
Zentalis, Auron, Prelude and C4 Therapeutics; for each of these entities he 
receives equity or compensation. He has received research support from the Cure 
Breast Cancer Foundation, Calico, Zentalis and Ajax, and has consulted for 
Jubilant, Goldman Sachs, Incyte, AstraZeneca and Janssen. A.G.B. reports 
personal fees and equity in TenSixteen Bio, all unrelated to this work. The 
other authors declare no competing interests.


56. NPJ Precis Oncol. 2025 Jul 15;9(1):239. doi: 10.1038/s41698-025-01033-1.

AI-powered prediction model for neoadjuvant chemotherapy efficacy: comprehensive 
analysis of breast cancer histological images.

Li F(1)(2), Wei Y(2)(3), Zhang W(1)(2), Zhao Y(4), Fu J(5), Xiao X(6), Qiu Y(1), 
Yi Y(7), Yang Y(8), Bu H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China.
(2)Institute of Clinical Pathology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Shanxi Province Cancer Hospital/Shanxi Hospital 
Affiliated to Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences/Cancer 
Hospital Affiliated to Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China.
(5)Department of Pathology, Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, Chengdu, 
China.
(6)Department of Pathology, The Affiliated Hospital of Southwest Medical 
University, Luzhou, China.
(7)Institute of Clinical Pathology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, China. yuhaoyi@scu.edu.cn.
(8)Institute of Clinical Pathology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, China. remy_yang@foxmail.com.

Breast cancer patients exhibit variable responses to neoadjuvant therapy (NAT), 
necessitating robust predictive biomarkers. We developed an artificial 
intelligence (AI)-driven integrated predictive model (IPM) combining 
histopathological, clinical, and immune features to address this challenge. 
Using whole-slide images from 1035 patients across four centers, we compared 
tumor epithelium (TE-score), stroma (TS-score), and whole-tumor (TR-score) deep 
learning biomarkers, identifying TR-score as optimal (AUC = 0.729 vs. 
0.686/0.719 for TE/TS-scores). The IPM, incorporating TR-score and clinical 
variables, demonstrated superior NAT response prediction versus 
clinicopathological models (validation AUC = 0.780 vs. 0.706, p < 0.001), with 
10% higher accuracy. Immune profiling further enhanced performance (AUC = 0.831 
vs. 0.822, p = 0.183). These results establish the biological and clinical 
validity of TR-score for characterizing tumor-stroma interactions, with IPM 
providing a generalizable framework for precision oncology. The model's 
stability across multicenter cohorts (AUCs 0.781-0.816) and incremental value of 
immune data suggest its utility in guiding NAT decision-making and trial 
stratification.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41698-025-01033-1
PMID: 40664754

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


57. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25474. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-05224-5.

Green synthesis of silver nanoparticles from plant Astragalus fasciculifolius 
Bioss and evaluating cytotoxic effects on MCF7 human breast cancer cells.

Nosrati F(1), Fakheri B(2), Ghaznavi H(3), Mahdinezhad N(1), Sheervalilou R(3), 
Fazeli-Nasab B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Breeding and Biotechnology, Faculty of Agriculture, 
University of Zabol, Zabol, Iran.
(2)Department of Plant Breeding and Biotechnology, Faculty of Agriculture, 
University of Zabol, Zabol, Iran. Fakheri@uoz.ac.ir.
(3)Pharmacology Research Center, Zahedan University of Medical Sciences, 
Zahedan, Iran.
(4)Department of Agronomy and Plant Breeding, Agriculture Institute, Research 
Institute of Zabol, Zabol, Iran. bfazelinasab@gmail.com.

Astragalus fasciculifolius Bioss, commonly known as Anzaroot, is a medicinal 
plant from the Fabaceae family, recognized for its therapeutic properties due to 
its rich composition of saponins, flavonoids, and polysaccharides. These 
compounds have been shown to effectively treat heart diseases and inhibit cancer 
cell growth while also alleviating chemotherapy side effects. Recent research 
has focused on the green synthesis of silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) from 
Anzaroot, exploring their potential cytotoxic effects against MCF-7 human breast 
cancer cells. This study aims to bridge traditional herbal medicine and modern 
nanotechnology by evaluating the anticancer properties of AgNPs derived from 
this lesser-explored plant. This study was aimed to assess the cytotoxic effect 
of Anzaroot and green synthesized AgNPs using aqueous extract of Anzaroot on the 
MCF-7 cell line. To optimization of AgNPs synthesis, different parameters were 
evaluated including Anzaroot aqueous extract volumes (1, 2, 3 and 4 ml), silver 
nitrate solution (AgNO3) concentrations (1, 5 and 10 mM), reaction time (30, 60 
and 300 min) and reaction solution pH (2, 4, 6, 8 and 10) at room temperature. 
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) 
spectroscopy, ultraviolet-visible (UV-Vis) spectroscopy, and X-ray diffraction 
analysis (XRD) were used to characterization of the AgNPs using aqueous extract 
of Anzaroot-silver nanoparticles (Anz@AgNPs). The obtained Anz@AgNPs exhibited 
Surface Plasmon Resonance (SPR) centered at 443 nm, with an average particle 
size calculated to be about 16 nm. The XRD spectrum of Anz@AgNPs showed a 
face-centred cubic (FCC) crystalline nature. The optimized parameters for 
successfully AgNPs synthesis were optained as follow: 4 ml aqueous extract 
volume, 1 and 5 mM AgNO3, reaction time of 300 min, and pH 8. MTT assay 
demonstrated the remarkable dependent dosage anticancer effect of the Anz@AgNPs 
against MCF-7 cell line. The IC50 value exposed that The lowest and the highest 
IC50 values was demonstrated for the Anz@AgNPs synthesized through the root 
extract (21.73 μg/Ml) and the aqueous root extract (348.21 μg/Ml) treatment. 
Based on the MTT assay, the Anz@AgNPs showed the inhibition of cell 
proliferation potential more than the aqueous extract of this plant. The plant 
organs used in Anz@AgNPs synthesis, root and gum, influenced their anticancer 
activity; nanoparticles synthesized from root extract demonstrated a stronger 
growth inhibitory effect than those from gum extract. The results demonstrated 
that anzroot plant can be effectively used as a reducing agent for AgNPs 
synthesis, and AgNPs have the potential to be used effectively in cancer therapy 
methods and to inhibit the growth of cancer cells.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-05224-5
PMID: 40664749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval and consent to participate: No 
human or animals were used in the present research. Ethical issues: Ethical 
issues (including plagiarism, data fabrication, double publication) have been 
completely observed by the authors. The authors have adhered to ethical 
standards, including avoiding plagiarism, data fabrication, and double 
publication. Consent for publication: All authors read and approved the final 
manuscript for publication. Informed consent: The authors declare not used any 
patients in this research.


58. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25479. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-09869-0.

Decision level scheme for fusing multiomics and histology slide images using 
deep neural network for tumor prognosis prediction.

Zhao T(1), Ren Y(2)(3), Lu H(1)(2)(3)(4), Kong Y(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Center for Biomedical Informatics, Shanghai Engineering Research Center for 
Big Data in Pediatric Precision Medicine, Shanghai Children's Hospital, 
Shanghai, 200240, China.
(2)SJTU-Yale Joint Center for Biostatistics and Data Science, Institute of 
Translational Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Institute of Bioinformatics, Shanghai Academy of Experimental Medicine, 
Shanghai, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Department of Bioinformatics 
and Biostatistics, School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Center for Biomedical Informatics, Shanghai Engineering Research Center for 
Big Data in Pediatric Precision Medicine, Shanghai Children's Hospital, 
Shanghai, 200240, China. kongyan@sjtu.edu.cn.
(6)SJTU-Yale Joint Center for Biostatistics and Data Science, Institute of 
Translational Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China. 
kongyan@sjtu.edu.cn.

Molecular biostatistical workflows in oncology often rely on predictive models 
that use multimodal data. Advances in deep learning and artificial intelligence 
technologies have enabled the multimodal fusion of large volumes of multimodal 
data. Here, we presented a decision level multimodal data fusion framework for 
integrating multiomics and pathological tissue slide images for prognosis 
prediction. Our approach established the spatial map of instances by connecting 
the neighboring nuclei in space and calculated the characteristic tensor via 
graph convolution layers for the input pathological tissue slide images. Global 
Average Pooling was applied to align and normalize the feature tensors from 
pathological images and the multiomics data, enabling seamless integration. We 
tested our proposed approach using Breast Invasive Carcinoma data and Non-Small 
Cell Lung Cancer data from the Cancer Genome Atlas, which contains paired 
whole-slide images, transcriptome data, genotype, epienetic, and survival 
information. In a 10-fold cross-validation, the comparison results demonstrated 
that the multimodal fusion paradigm improves outcome predictions from single 
modal data alone with the average C-index increasing from 0.61 to 0.52 to 0.75 
and 0.67 for breast cancer and non-small cell lung cancer cohort, respectively. 
The proposed decision level multimodal data fusion framework is expected to 
provide insights and technical methodologies for the follow-up studies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-09869-0
PMID: 40664732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


59. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 15;16(1):6510. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61212-3.

Author Correction: Palbociclib and dsRNA sensor co-operate to enhance 
anti-cancer effects through ER stress and modulation of immune evasion.

Roulstone V(#)(1), Kyula-Currie J(#)(2), Wright J(2), Patin EC(2), Dean I(2), Yu 
L(2), Barreiro-Alonso A(2), Melake M(2), Choudhary J(2), Elliott R(3), Lord 
CJ(3), Mansfield D(2), Matthews N(2), Chauhan R(2), Jennings V(2), Chan Wah Hak 
C(2), Baldock H(2), Butera F(2), Appleton E(2), Nenclares P(2), Pedersen M(2), 
Foo S(2), Wongariyapak A(2), Rullan A(2), Tenev T(2), Meier P(2), Vile R(4), 
Pandha H(5), Melcher A(2), McLaughlin M(2), Harrington KJ(2).

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK. Victoria.Roulstone@icr.ac.uk.
(2)The Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK.
(3)The CRUK Gene Function Laboratory and Breast Cancer Now Toby Robins Research 
Centre, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK.
(4)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(5)University of Surrey, Guildford, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum for
    Nat Commun. 2025 May 25;16(1):4855. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-60133-5.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61212-3
PMID: 40664654


60. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 15;16(1):6531. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61434-5.

Unlocking tumor barrier: annexin A2-mediated transcytosis boosts drug delivery 
in pancreatic and breast tumors.

Liu Y(#)(1), Wang Q(#)(1)(2), Feng Z(#)(1)(2), Qin M(#)(1), Zhang Z(1)(2), Jiang 
J(3), Ren T(4), Liu X(3), Jeffrey Brinker C(5), Zhao Y(1)(6), Meng H(7).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory for Biomedical Effects of Nanomaterials and Nanosafety, 
National Center for Nanoscience and Technology, Beijing, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou Institute of Medicine (HIM), Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Hangzhou, China.
(4)National Institute of Metrology of China, Beijing, China.
(5)The University of New Mexico, Center for Micro-Engineering Materials, 
Albuquerque, US.
(6)College of Chemistry and Materials Science, and Institute of Nanotechnology 
and Intelligence (INAI), Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
(7)CAS Key Laboratory for Biomedical Effects of Nanomaterials and Nanosafety, 
National Center for Nanoscience and Technology, Beijing, China. 
mengh@nanoctr.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

The efficacy of many cancer nanocarriers has traditionally been attributed to 
enlarged tumor vasculature fenestrations, giving rise to the concept of the 
enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect. However, emerging evidence 
suggests that active biological processes, such as transcytosis, may play a 
central (and sometimes dominant) role in nanoparticle transport across tumor 
vasculature. In this study, we develop lipid-coated mesoporous silica 
nanoparticles (LC-MSNP) as a model platform to investigate the contribution of 
surface-bound proteins to transcytosis-mediated tumor delivery. Through 
comparative analysis, we identify Annexin A2 (A2) as a key endogenous protein 
that facilitates this process. Pre-coating LC-MSNP with A2 significantly 
enhances the delivery of irinotecan and doxorubicin to breast and pancreatic 
tumors in vivo. This strategy is successfully extended to both an in-house 
liposome formulation and a commercial doxorubicin liposome, leading to improved 
therapeutic efficacy, including long-term survival in a subset of treated mice. 
Mechanistic studies reveal that this enhancement is governed by a specific 
nanosurface-A2-α5β1 integrin interaction. In both murine and patient-derived 
xenograft models, therapeutic benefit correlates with α5β1 integrin expression 
on tumor vasculature. These findings establish a mechanistic basis for 
protein-mediated transcytosis and provide a translational strategy to improve 
the performance of clinically approved nanomedicines.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61434-5
PMID: 40664649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.61. Cell Prolif. 2025 Jul 15:e70100. doi: 10.1111/cpr.70100. Online ahead of
print.

Endocrine Resistance Score Based on Three Key Genes Predicts Prognosis and 
Reveals Potential Therapeutic Targets for ER+HER2- Breast Cancer.

Ping L(1), Zhu L(2), Chen N(3), Liu X(1), Zhong J(1), Sun X(4), Tang H(4), Zhang 
K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China.
(2)The First People's Hospital of Foshan (The Affiliated Foshan Hospital of 
Southern University of Science and Technology), School of Medicine, Southern 
University of Science and Technology, Foshan, China.
(3)The First Affiliated Hospital, Hengyang Medical School, University of South 
China, Hengyang, Hunan, China.
(4)Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in 
South China, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangdong 
Provincial Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.

Endocrine resistance is a leading cause of mortality in oestrogen 
receptor-positive and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative 
(ER+HER2-) breast cancer (BC), highlighting the urgent need to understand its 
underlying molecular mechanisms and identify potentially resistant patients for 
effective management. In this study, we constructed endocrine-resistant cell 
lines through long-term oestrogen deprivation and identified differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) via transcriptome analysis. Key endocrine-resistant genes 
were defined through Cox regression analysis. Our findings revealed that the 
genes CLEC3A, PCDH10, and ST3GAL1 were significantly upregulated in 
endocrine-resistant cells and serve as independent prognostic factors for 
ER+HER2- BC patients. We developed an endocrine resistance score (ERS), and a 
nomogram model incorporating ERS demonstrated robust predictive capabilities for 
patient prognosis. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis demonstrated that the ERS 
and the three core genes constituting the ERS were significantly upregulated in 
tissue specimens from patients with resistance to endocrine neoadjuvant therapy. 
Additionally, knocking down CLEC3A, PCDH10, and ST3GAL1 led to reduced 
malignancy progression in endocrine-resistant BC cells. Mechanistic studies 
revealed that CLEC3A promotes endocrine resistance by upregulating the PI3K-AKT 
pathway. This study suggests that CLEC3A, PCDH10, and ST3GAL1 are associated 
with endocrine resistance and can reflect the prognosis of ER+HER2- BC patients 
receiving endocrine therapy, providing potential therapeutic targets and a 
valuable prognostic indicator for clinicians.

© 2025 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem 
Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cpr.70100
PMID: 40664624


62. J Nucl Med Technol. 2025 Jul 15:jnmt.124.268823. doi:
10.2967/jnmt.124.268823.  Online ahead of print.

Bone SPECT/CT of an Intervertebral Disk Calcification.

Khan MA(1), Bashir H(2), Williams A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust, 
Willesborough, United Kingdom; and muhammad.khan122@nhs.net.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine, East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation 
Trust, Willesborough, United Kingdom.

Calcific diskitis (CD) is a rare condition characterized by inflammation and 
calcification of an intervertebral disk, typically causing localized back pain. 
We present the case of a 65-y-old woman with a history of breast cancer and 
persistent back pain. SPECT/CT identified focal uptake at the T10-T11 vertebrae, 
localized to the intervertebral disk. Retrospective review of MR images from 
2016 demonstrated a hypointense signal within the same disk on both T1- and 
T2-weighted images, consistent with disk calcification. This case highlights the 
utility of SPECT/CT in identifying CD and distinguishing it from other 
pathologies, including metastatic or degenerative spinal disease. CD should be 
considered in the differential diagnoses of backache.

© 2025 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging.

DOI: 10.2967/jnmt.124.268823
PMID: 40664487


63. Genome Res. 2025 Jul 15:gr.280304.124. doi: 10.1101/gr.280304.124. Online
ahead  of print.

Alternative splicing generates HER2 isoform diversity underlying antibody-drug 
conjugate resistance in breast cancer.

Guardia GDA(1), Dos Anjos CH(1), Rangel-Pozzo A(2), Dos Santos FF(3), Birbrair 
A(4), Asprino PF(1), Camargo AA(1), Galante PAF(5).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Sirio-Libanes.
(2)University of Manitoba.
(3)Hospital Sirio-Libanes, Universidade de Sao Paulo.
(4)University of Wisconsin-Madison.
(5)Hospital Sirio-Libanes; pgalante@mochsl.org.br.

Breast cancer (BC) is a heterogeneous disease that can be molecularly classified 
based on the expression of the ERBB2 receptor (also known as HER2) and hormone 
receptors. Targeted therapies for HER2-positive BC, such as trastuzumab, 
antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) and tyrosine kinase inhibitors, have improved 
patient outcomes but primary/acquired resistance still pose challenges that can 
limit treatments' long-term efficacy. Addressing these obstacles is vital for 
enhancing therapeutic strategies and patient care. Alternative splicing, a 
post-transcriptional mechanism that enhances transcript diversity (isoforms), 
can produce proteins with varied functions, cellular localizations, or binding 
properties. Here, we comprehensively characterized the HER2 alternative splicing 
isoforms, assessed their expression in primary BC patients and cell lines, and 
explored their role in resistance to anti-HER2 therapies. We expanded the 
catalog of known HER2 protein-coding isoforms from 13 to 90, revealing distinct 
patterns of protein domains, cellular localizations, and protein structures, 
along with their antibody-binding sites. By profiling expression in 561 primary 
BC samples and mass spectrometry data, we discovered a complex landscape of HER2 
isoform, revealing novel transcripts that were previously unrecognized and are 
not assessed in routine clinical practice. Finally, the assessment of HER2 
isoform expression in BC cell cultures sensitive or resistant to trastuzumab and 
ADCs revealed that drug-resistant cells shifted their expression toward isoforms 
lacking antibody-binding domains. Our results broaden the understanding of HER2 
isoforms, revealing distinct mechanisms of potential resistance to anti-HER2 
therapies, particularly ADCs. This expanded landscape of HER2 isoforms 
emphasizes the crucial role of alternative splicing investigations in advancing 
precision-targeted cancer therapies.

Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.280304.124
PMID: 40664477


64. Cell Signal. 2025 Jul 13:111998. doi: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2025.111998. Online 
ahead of print.

CX-5461 inhibits cell proliferation and induces ferroptosis of colorectal cancer 
cells by inactivating Nrf2 pathway.

Chang X(1), Zhang Y(2), Wang Q(2), Yang W(2), Zhang R(3), Cong X(3), Xiao W(3), 
Piao J(1), Lin Z(1), Jin A(4).

Author information:
(1)Central Laboratory, The Affiliated Hospital of Yanbian University, Yanji, 
China; Key Laboratory of Pathobiology (Yanbian University), State Ethnic Affairs 
Commission, Yanji, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Pathobiology (Yanbian University), State Ethnic Affairs 
Commission, Yanji, China.
(3)Central Laboratory, The Affiliated Hospital of Yanbian University, Yanji, 
China; Department of ophthalmology, Affiliated Hospital of Yanbian University, 
Yanji, China.
(4)Central Laboratory, The Affiliated Hospital of Yanbian University, Yanji, 
China; Department of ophthalmology, Affiliated Hospital of Yanbian University, 
Yanji, China. Electronic address: drjinah@163.com.

Ferroptosis is a newly identified type of cell death, characterized by iron 
dependent lipid peroxidation. Triggering ferroptosis is considered a promising 
target, and efforts have been made to identify ferroptosis inducers in cancer. 
CX-5461 is a RNA polymerase I inhibitors that has been approved by FDA to treat 
breast and ovarian cancer patients with BRCA1/2 mutations. In our previous 
study, we found that CX-5461 inhibited GSH synthesis and promote lipid 
peroxidation in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells, suggesting that CX-5461 could 
induce ferroptosis. Therefore, we aim to elucidate the anti-cancer activity of 
CX-5461 in CRC,and the mechanisms of CX-5461-mediated ferroptosis. As a result, 
we found that CX-5461 inhibited the proliferation of CRC cells, determined by 
CCK-8, EdU and colony formation assay. RNA-seq analysis suggested that 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were related to cell adhesion molecular, 
focal adhesion, and cell cycle, etc. Consistently, we observed that CX-5461 
induced cell cycle arrest, and inhibited migration, invasion and EMT progression 
in CRC cells. Of note, the GSH, SLC7A11 and GPX4 were decreased in CX-5462 
treated CRC cells, meanwhile ROS, MDA, and lipid ROS were increased. 
Furthermore, CX-5461 down-regulated Nrf2. Nrf2 activator THBQ successfully 
reversed the effect of CX-5461 on cell proliferation and ferroptosis. 
Mechanically, CX-5461 induces ubiquitinization of Nrf2. The decreased Nrf2 
subsequently down-regulates SLC7A11 and GPX4. In conclusion, these results 
demonstrated that CX-5461 induced ferroptosis through inhibiting SLC7A11/GPX4 
axis by promoting ubiquitinization of Nrf2 in CRC cells, suggesting that CX-5461 
may be a valuable candidate for anti-cancer agent in CRC.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2025.111998
PMID: 40664345

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests:


65. J Affect Disord. 2025 Jul 13:119884. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.119884. Online 
ahead of print.

The association between perinatal maternal mental health during the COVID-19 
pandemic and offspring neurodevelopment at 24 months of age.

Sindalovsky A(1), Geisler K(2), Huddleston HG(3), Cedars MI(4), Jaswa EG(5), 
Huddleston R(6), Julian-Kwong M(7), Corley J(8), Hoskin E(9), Lindquist KJ(10).

Author information:
(1)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
anna.sindalovsky@ucsf.edu.
(2)School of Public Health, 2121 Berkeley Way, University of California, 
Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94704, USA. Electronic address: kgeisler@berkeley.edu.
(3)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
heather.huddleston@ucsf.edu.
(4)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
marcelle.cedars@ucsf.edu.
(5)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
eleni.jaswa@ucsf.edu.
(6)Depertment of Integrative Biology, 45 Noland Hall, 250 N Mills St, University 
of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53706, USA. Electronic address: 
rhhuddleston@wisc.edu.
(7)Department of Neuroscience, Box G-LN, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, 
USA. Electronic address: maya_julian-kwong@brown.edu.
(8)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
jamie.corley@ucsf.edu.
(9)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
elena.hoskin@ucsf.edu.
(10)Center for Reproductive Health, 499 Illinois Street, 6th Floor, University 
of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
karla.lindquist@ucsf.edu.

BACKGROUND: Prenatal anxiety and depression have been linked to adverse 
childhood neurodevelopment, potentially through cortisol-induced epigenetic 
changes. Postpartum depression is also associated with neurodevelopmental 
delays, possibly via altered parental attachment. While prenatal and postpartum 
mental health may be correlated, their relative and independent impacts on 
offspring neurodevelopment remain unclear. This study examines the effects of 
prenatal and postpartum anxiety and/or depression on neurodevelopmental delay at 
24 months.
METHODS: In a nationwide prospective cohort from the "Assessing the Safety of 
Pregnancy in the Coronavirus Pandemic" study, prenatal anxiety (GAD-7), prenatal 
depression (PHQ-9), and six-week postpartum depression (EPDS) were assessed. 
Childhood neurodevelopment was measured using the Ages and Stages Questionnaire, 
3rd edition (ASQ-3). Logistic regression tested associations between 
moderate-to-severe maternal anxiety/depression and neurodevelopmental delay, 
adjusting for participant age, education, household income, and residential 
density. Alcohol, nicotine, anxiety/depression medication use during pregnancy, 
and preterm birth were considered as moderators/mediators.
RESULTS: Offspring of participants experiencing both prenatal and postpartum 
moderate-to-severe anxiety or depression (N = 62) had a higher risk of 
neurodevelopmental delay at 24 months compared to those who experienced neither 
(N = 1060) with an adjusted risk ratio of 1.88 (p < 0.001). While delay risk was 
higher in offspring of those with only prenatal (N = 218) or postpartum (N = 45) 
anxiety/depression, these were not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Having both moderate-to-severe prenatal and postpartum anxiety or 
depression independently increased the risk of developmental delay at 24 months, 
even after adjusting for confounders. Further research is needed to explore 
underlying mechanisms linking maternal mental health and fetal neurodevelopment.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.119884
PMID: 40664315

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Marcelle I. Cedars reports 
financial support was provided by Start Smal Foundation. Marcelle I. Cedars 
reports financial support was provided by California Breast Cancer Research 
Program. Marcelle I. Cedars reports financial support was provided by COVID 
Catalyst Award. Marcelle I. Cedars reports financial support was provided by 
AbbVie Inc. Marcelle I. Cedars reports financial support was provided by Ferring 
Pharmaceuticals. Marcelle I. Cedars reports administrative support was provided 
by The Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology. Heather G. Huddleston 
reports a relationship with Allara Health that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Heather G. Huddleston reports a relationship with May Health that includes: 
funding grants. Heather G. Huddleston reports a relationship with Rejoni that 
includes: funding grants. Marcelle I. Cedars reports a relationship with 
American Society for Reproductive Medicine that includes: board membership. 
Marcelle I. Cedars reports a relationship with American Gynecological & 
Obstetrical Society that includes: board membership. Marcelle I. Cedars reports 
a relationship with UptoDate Inc. that includes: consulting or advisory. Eleni 
G. Jaswa reports a relationship with Oura Health that includes: consulting or 
advisory. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


66. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Jul 6;163:108712. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108712. Online
 ahead of print.

One-pot multi-component synthesis and biological evaluation of spirooxindole 
carbamate derivatives of major flavonoids isolated from oroxylum indicum: 
Identification of potent anti-proliferative leads active against hepatocellular 
carcinoma.

Narendar K(1), Narsimha K(2), Sharma N(3), Siva B(2), Yaladanda N(3), Sridhar 
B(4), Mutheneni SR(3), Balaji AS(5), Babu KS(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Natural Products and Medicinal Chemistry, CSIR-Indian Institute 
of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad 500 007, India; Academy of Scientific and 
Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad 201002, India.
(2)Division of Natural Products and Medicinal Chemistry, CSIR-Indian Institute 
of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad 500 007, India.
(3)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad 201002, 
India; Applied Biology, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad 
500 007, India.
(4)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad 201002, 
India; Center for X-ray Crystallography, Department of Analytical and Structural 
Chemistry, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad 500 007, 
India.
(5)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad 201002, 
India; Applied Biology, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad 
500 007, India. Electronic address: balaji@iict.res.in.
(6)Division of Natural Products and Medicinal Chemistry, CSIR-Indian Institute 
of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad 500 007, India; Academy of Scientific and 
Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad 201002, India. Electronic address: 
suresh@iict.res.in.

A series of 30 novel spirooxindole carbamate derivatives of flavonoids (chrysin, 
oroxylin A and baicailein) were synthesized in a one-pot three-component 
reaction via a sequence of Knoevenagel condensation, cyclization reactions in a 
highly efficient and selective manner. The structures of all the derivatives 
(6a-6 l, 7a-7 l and 8a-8f) were characterized by interpretation of NMR (1H NMR, 
13C NMR) and mass spectral data. The structures of the compounds 6d and 7f were 
further confirmed by single-crystal X-ray diffraction for the first time. The 
anti-proliferative potential of these derivatives was assessed against various 
cancer cells such as A549 (lung), MDA-MB-231 (breast), HeLa (cervical), HepG2 
(liver), and HEK 293 (normal kidney) cell lines using the Sulforhodamine-B 
assay. Among all tested compounds, 6d exhibited the most potent 
anti-proliferative activity, with an IC₅₀ of 2.50 ± 0.25 μM against the HepG2 
cell line. Compound 6d significantly enhanced early apoptosis in comparison to 
control cells and markedly (p < 0.001) reduced the population of CD133+ cancer 
stem-like cells, which are critical mediators of metastasis and drug resistance. 
Molecular docking studies revealed a strong interactions between compound 6d and 
critical residues of CD133, including Phe787, Val794, Phe62, Lys791, and Leu5, 
with a binding affinity of -10.2 kcal/mol. Furthermore, compound 6d treatment 
reduced sphere formation in a dose-dependent manner in HepG2 cells. In vivo 
studies using a xenograft model demonstrated that compound 6d significantly 
suppressed tumor growth and reduced tumor weight, indicating its potential as a 
promising therapeutic candidate for hepatocellular carcinoma.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108712
PMID: 40664153

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


67. Comput Biol Med. 2025 Jul 14;196(Pt A):110771. doi: 
10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110771. Online ahead of print.

Therapeutic targeting of triple-negative breast cancer: A multi-model evaluation 
of LNA-anti-miR-19b-3p and small molecule inhibitors.

Kamali MJ(1), Saeedi F(2), Khoshghiafeh A(3), Mir MA(4), Aram C(5), Ahmadifard 
M(6).

Author information:
(1)Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center, Health Research Institute, 
Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran; Department of Medical 
Genetics, School of Medicine, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(2)Student Research Committee, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Medical Genetics, School of Medicine, Babol University of 
Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(4)Deputy of Research and Technology, Babol University of Medical Sciences, 
Babol, Iran.
(5)Department of Cell & Molecular Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences, 
Kharazmi University, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center, Health Research Institute, 
Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran; Department of Medical 
Genetics, School of Medicine, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran. 
Electronic address: mr.ahmadifard@gmail.com.

The potential of inhibiting hsa-miR-19b-3p as a therapeutic approach for 
triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) was investigated. To explore this, we 
studied the function of hsa-miR-19b-3p in TNBC cells, specifically the 
MDA-MB-231 cell line. We transfected these cells with LNA-anti-miR to inhibit 
the miRNA and then used qRT-PCR to measure the level of inhibition. 
Interestingly, we observed over 95 % inhibition at 24 h, and even at 48 h, the 
inhibition remained high at over 75 %. Upon closer examination, we determined 
the impact of this inhibition on cell viability using MTT assays, which showed a 
significant decrease in cell numbers following treatment with 
LNA-anti-miR-19b-3p. Furthermore, our apoptosis analysis, using Annexin 
V/Propidium iodide staining, revealed an increased apoptosis rate in the 
transfected cells compared to the controls. Alongside these experimental 
studies, we employed computational methods to investigate hsa-miR-19b-3p in 
greater detail, including RNA-Seq analysis of TCGA data, which identified 2585 
upregulated and 4251 downregulated genes. Cross-referencing downregulated genes 
with target genes from miRTarBase, RNAInter, and miRWalk led to the 
identification of four potential hsa-miR-19b-3p targets: TMTC1, MBNL3, FAT3, and 
GFOD1, with TMTC1 and MBNL3 showing statistically significant downregulation. 
Additionally, we screened for potential small molecule inhibitors, identifying 
four promising candidates, including Dovitinib, S-Adenosylmethionine, 
Guanosine-5',3'-tetraphosphate, and Neomycin, which exhibited favorable 
drug-like characteristics. In conclusion, our multifaceted approach demonstrates 
the significant potential of LNA-anti-miR-19b-3p as a therapeutic option for 
TNBC patients, and the small molecule inhibitors we've uncovered could open new 
avenues for treating this aggressive form of breast cancer.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110771
PMID: 40664124

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


68. Transl Oncol. 2025 Jul 14;59:102471. doi: 10.1016/j.tranon.2025.102471.
Online  ahead of print.

Characterization and functional analysis of BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants in a cohort 
of 100 unselected patients undergoing germline screening.

Shi Q(1), Gao J(2), Yu H(2), Niu Y(3), Yuan E(2), Guo Y(2), Song L(2), Fang 
Y(4), Wang Y(2), Yuan E(4), Zhang Y(5), Zhao X(6), Zhang L(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, , 450052, China; Zhengzhou Key Laboratory for In 
Vitro Diagnosis of Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy, Zhengzhou, Henan, 
450052, China; Tianjian Laboratory of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Institute of 
Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan, , 450000, 
China. Electronic address: qianqianshi@zzu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, , 450052, China; Zhengzhou Key Laboratory for In 
Vitro Diagnosis of Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy, Zhengzhou, Henan, 
450052, China.
(3)Department of Breast Surgery, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, 450052, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, , 450052, China; Zhengzhou Key Laboratory for In 
Vitro Diagnosis of Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy, Zhengzhou, Henan, 
450052, China; Tianjian Laboratory of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Institute of 
Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan, , 450000, 
China.
(5)Tianjian Laboratory of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Institute of Advanced 
Biomedical Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan, , 450000, China; 
Department of Breast Surgery, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, 450052, China. Electronic address: 
yanwuzhang@zzu.edu.cn.
(6)Tianjian Laboratory of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Institute of Advanced 
Biomedical Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan, , 450000, China. 
Electronic address: zdsfyzx@zzu.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Laboratory Medicine, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, , 450052, China; Zhengzhou Key Laboratory for In 
Vitro Diagnosis of Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy, Zhengzhou, Henan, 
450052, China; Tianjian Laboratory of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Institute of 
Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan, , 450000, 
China. Electronic address: zll7376@zzu.edu.cn.

Germline loss-of-function mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 (BRCA) genes are 
well-established as causative factors for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer 
(HBOC), conferring an approximately tenfold increased lifetime risk. The 
identification of BRCA mutations is essential for risk assessment and management 
in high-risk individuals and cancer patients. In this study, we utilized 
next-generation sequencing (NGS) to comprehensively analyze the entire coding 
regions of BRCA genes in a cohort of 100 unselected patients undergoing germline 
screening (average age ≤45 years and/or family history of related cancers). A 
total of twenty-two variants were identified, including thirteen pathogenic or 
likely pathogenic variants (PVs/LPVs) and nine variants of uncertain 
significance (VUSs). Notably, six novel variants (two in BRCA1 and four in 
BRCA2) were discovered. Molecular subtyping revealed that breast cancer (BC) 
patients with BRCA variants were predominantly human epidermal growth factor 
receptor-2 (HER2)-negative. Using in silico prediction tools, nine VUSs were 
reclassified, with functional impairment confirmed for the BRCA2 p.W2619C and 
BRCA2 p.N1023_I1024del variants. Functional assays demonstrated that the BRCA2 
p.W2619C variant significantly enhanced cell proliferation, migration, and 
invasion. Moreover, cells harboring the BRCA2 p.W2619C mutation exhibited 
increased sensitivity to Olaparib, suggesting potential therapeutic benefit from 
PARP inhibitors for patients with this variant. Our study identified six novel 
BRCA mutations and functionally validated the pathogenicity of the BRCA2 
p.W2619C variant, thereby advancing the understanding of BRCA-related cancer 
risk and supporting enhanced genetic counseling and testing strategies for 
at-risk populations.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tranon.2025.102471
PMID: 40664060

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


69. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Jul 7;297:117936. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117936.
Online  ahead of print.

Targeting voltage-gated proton channel H(V)1: Optimised 
5-phenyl-2-aminoimidazoles with anticancer potential.

Piga M(1), Domingos GJ(2), Feher A(2), Papp F(2), Bangera KC(2), Varga Z(2), 
Zakany F(2), Kovacs T(2), Dernovšek J(1), Tomašič T(1), Zidar N(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Ljubljana, Aškerčeva cesta 7, Ljubljana, 
1000, Slovenia.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Biophysics and Cell Biology, University of 
Debrecen, Egyetem tér 1, Debrecen, H-4032, Hungary.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Ljubljana, Aškerčeva cesta 7, Ljubljana, 
1000, Slovenia. Electronic address: nace.zidar@ffa.uni-lj.si.

The voltage-gated proton channel (HV1) has been linked to the development of 
tumours, neuroinflammatory diseases, immune disorders and infertility, making 
HV1 inhibitors promising candidates for therapeutic development. In this study, 
we designed and synthesized an optimised series of 
5-phenyl-2-aminoimidazole-based HV1 inhibitors, with the most potent compounds 
exhibiting low micromolar IC50 values. Structural analysis highlighted the 
importance of an unsubstituted 2-aminoimidazole core and flexible linkers for 
optimal ligand-channel binding, driven by hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic 
interactions. Antiproliferative assays showed that the most potent HV1 
inhibitors had IC50 values in the low micromolar range, with greater efficacy 
against THP-1 cells (human monocytic leukaemia), which express HV1 at high 
levels, compared to MCF-7 cells (human breast cancer) with lower HV1 expression. 
The type II compounds exhibited superior drug-like properties, including 
improved solubility, plasma protein binding and permeability compared to 
previous 5-phenyl-2-aminoimidazole-based HV1 inhibitors, as well as robust 
metabolic stability. However, selectivity over the KV1.3 and NaV1.5 channels 
remained limited. This work advances the development of HV1 inhibitors. It 
provides valuable chemical tools to study the role of HV1 in disease 
pathogenesis and lays the foundation for new therapeutic strategies targeting 
HV1-mediated signalling pathways.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117936
PMID: 40663975

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Nace Zidar reports financial 
support was provided by Slovenian Research and Innovation Agency. Zoltan Varga, 
Florina Zakany, Tamas Kovacs, Adam Feher reports financial support was provided 
by National Research Development and Innovation Office. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


70. J Geriatr Oncol. 2025 Jul 14;16(7):102316. doi: 10.1016/j.jgo.2025.102316. 
Online ahead of print.

Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, a predictor for mortality and unplanned hospital 
readmissions in patients aged 75 years and older with cancer.

Barcaglioni GC(1), Tisserand J(2), Valero S(1), Bouchaert P(3), Bouisset M(1), 
Favard E(1), Moreno Y(1), Chauvineau O(1), Seite F(1), Paccalin M(4), Liuu E(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, University Hospital of Poitiers, 2 rue de la 
Milétrie, 86000 Poitiers, France.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, University Hospital of Poitiers, 2 rue de la 
Milétrie, 86000 Poitiers, France; Université de Poitiers, CHU Poitiers, ProDiCeT 
UR24144, F-86000 Poitiers, France.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, University Hospital of Poitiers, 2 rue de la 
Milétrie, 86000 Poitiers, France.
(4)Department of Geriatrics, University Hospital of Poitiers, 2 rue de la 
Milétrie, 86000 Poitiers, France; Centre d'investigation Clinique INSERM U1402, 
University Hospital of Poitiers, 2 rue de la Milétrie, 86000 Poitiers, France.
(5)Department of Geriatrics, University Hospital of Poitiers, 2 rue de la 
Milétrie, 86000 Poitiers, France; Centre d'investigation Clinique INSERM U1402, 
University Hospital of Poitiers, 2 rue de la Milétrie, 86000 Poitiers, France. 
Electronic address: evelyne.liuu@chu-poitiers.fr.

INTRODUCTION: Assessing the prognosis of older patients with cancer is essential 
to determine the best strategy for oncological care, given the heterogeneous 
profiles of this population. Evaluation should consider frailty, comorbidities, 
geriatric parameters, and oncological parameters. Finding early prognostic 
indicators would be helpful to optimize care. We aimed to investigate the 
prognostic value of the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) in patients aged 75 
and above with solid cancers.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective review of the ANCRAGE (ANalyse CanceR et 
sujet AGE) cohort that included all patients ≥75 years of age with solid cancer 
who were consecutively assessed in the geriatric oncology clinic of the 
University Hospital of Poitiers (France) between January 1, 2016 and August 31, 
2023. Pretreatment assessment included socio-demographic data, oncological, 
clinical frailty scale (CFS) and geriatric assessment (GA). Geriatric domains 
assessed were level of dependence, risk of falls, nutrition, mood, and 
cognition. We defined frailty as the presence of at least one impairment in any 
of the geriatric domains. The NLR was determined within seven days before or 
after the GA and before any specific cancer treatment. Survival curves and Cox 
regression analyses were performed to assess the prognostic values in terms of 
overall survival (OS) and unplanned hospital readmissions (UHR).
RESULTS: Overall, 1446 patients were included. Mean age was 86.6 years (± 
5.2 years), with a male predominance (59 %). Most prevalent cancer sites were 
prostate (20 %, n = 283), colorectal (16 %, n = 230), breast (15 %, n = 217), 
skin (9 %, n = 134), and lung (7 %, n = 103), with metastatic status in over 
one-third of cases. The pretreatment GA identified frailty in 70 % of cases 
(n = 1012), with malnutrition (54 %, n = 774) and risk of falls (37 %, n = 538) 
being the main contributing factors. Median NLR was 3.50 [2.34-5.31]. There was 
a significant association between NLR and frailty using the CFS score 
(p < 0.001). The median follow-up time for OS analysis was 487 days [186-957]. 
The results of the multivariate analysis indicated that pretreatment NLR was an 
independent predictor of OS (hazard ratio [HR] 1.010, 95 % CI: 1.005-1.015, 
p < 0.001) and of UHR (HR 1.057, 95 % CI: 1.014-1.101, p = 0.008). Cut-off value 
>3.5 was associated with lower OS (p < 0.001).
DISCUSSION: In our study, NLR was independently associated with higher mortality 
and high risk of unplanned hospital readmissions within one year of GA in older 
patients with solid tumors.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2025.102316
PMID: 40663850

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


71. J Clin Anesth. 2025 Jul 14;106:111920. doi: 10.1016/j.jclinane.2025.111920. 
Online ahead of print.

Overdiagnosis of catheter-related thrombosis: When intensive screening detects 
clinically irrelevant findings.

Yuan HT(1), Qin N(2), Zhou Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Liaoning Provincial Cancer Hospital, Shenyang 110042, 
Liaoning, China.
(2)Department of Breast Surgery, Liaoning Provincial Cancer Hospital, Shenyang 
110042, Liaoning, China.
(3)Department of Intravenous Cannula Maintenance Clinic, Liaoning Provincial 
Cancer Hospital, Shenyang 110042, Liaoning, China. Electronic address: 
yuanhuiting0809@163.com.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinane.2025.111920
PMID: 40663815

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


72. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2025 Jul 1. doi: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000012281. Online
ahead  of print.

Mastectomy skin flap necrosis after implant-based breast reconstruction: 
Intraoperative predictors and indocyanine green angiography.

Nguyen CL(1)(2)(3), Zhou M(3), Easwaralingam N(1)(2), Seah JL(1), Chan B(1), 
Graham S(1)(2), Azimi F(1)(2), Mak C(1), Pulitano C(2)(3), Warrier SK(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Surgery, Chris O'Brien Lifehouse 119-143 Missenden Rd, 
Camperdown NSW 2050, Australia.
(2)Department of Surgery, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital 50 Missenden Rd, 
Camperdown NSW 2050, Australia.
(3)Department of Surgery, The University of Sydney Camperdown NSW 2050, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Nipple-sparing mastectomy (NSM) carries significant risk of 
mastectomy skin flap necrosis (MSFN) which can compromise oncological, surgical, 
and quality-of-life outcomes. Prospective data on intraoperative predictors of 
MSFN could help with mitigating this risk.
METHODS: Single institution prospective trial of patients undergoing NSM 
implant-based reconstruction for breast cancer or prophylaxis (2021-2024). Flap 
perfusion was evaluated using clinical assessment, and indocyanine green (ICG) 
angiography perfusion values and angiogram patterns. Ischemic complications up 
to 90 days postoperative were documented. Patient, operative factors, and 
perfusion analyses, evaluated with univariate and multivariate analysis. Trial 
registration: ACTRN12621000828820.
RESULTS: One hundred eighty-eight patients underwent 274 NSMs. Eight percent of 
breasts (22 of 274) developed nipple or skin flap necrosis. Among these, 27.3% 
had superficial, 31.8% had partial-thickness, and 40.9% had full-thickness 
necrosis. Multivariate analysis identified previous radiotherapy, ICG 
angiography absolute perfusion value <14units, ICG angiography relative 
perfusion value <30%, and absence of a second intercostal perforator vessel as 
independent factors associated with necrosis (HR 2.17, 95% CI 0.92-4.11, 
p=0.037; HR 2.53, 95% CI 1.43-3.6, p=0.014; HR 1.2, 95% CI 0.2-1.95, p 0.047; HR 
2.81, 95% CI 1.13-3.44, p=0.046, respectively). Mastectomy incision type, 
clinical assessment of flap perfusion, mastectomy weight, and initial tissue 
expander fill ratio were not found to be independent factors associated with 
necrosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Preservation of the second intercostal perforator vessel was 
identified as a modifiable intraoperative factor that may decrease the risk of 
necrosis after NSM. Poor intraoperative perfusion, as detected by ICG 
angiography, was associated with a greater likelihood of necrosis.

Copyright © 2025 by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000012281
PMID: 40663729

Conflict of interest statement: Financial Disclosures, Conflicts of Interest, 
and Products: None to disclose.


73. Anesthesiology. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 10.1097/ALN.0000000000005649. Online ahead
of  print.

A Randomized Controlled Trial of Intraoperative Ketamine for Acute Postsurgical 
Pain after Breast Cancer Surgery: The Moderating Effect of Baseline Temporal 
Summation of Pain.

Wilson JM(1), Gokul S, Franqueiro AR, Rosado E, Yong RJ, Edwards RR, Schreiber 
KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative, and Pain Medicine, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Activation of nociceptive pathways by surgical trauma can induce 
central sensitization, which is associated with greater pain severity and 
persistence. The NMDA-receptor antagonist ketamine blocks central sensitization, 
but has a variable track-record for preventing postsurgical pain. Patient-level 
factors contribute to variability in pain and may serve as markers of 
differential efficacy of preventive effect.
METHODS: This prospective, longitudinal randomized controlled trial investigated 
the effectiveness of intraoperatively administered ketamine to decrease 
postoperative pain after breast surgery. Before surgery, patients reported 
demographic and medical information and completed validated pain and 
psychosocial questionnaires. A subset of patients also underwent quantitative 
sensory testing to assess baseline temporal summation of pain (central 
sensitization tendency). Analyses of Covariance, controlling for relevant pre- 
and peri-operative factors, examined treatment group (ketamine vs. saline) 
differences in 2-week postoperative pain outcomes. Exploratory moderation 
analysis explored whether the efficacy of ketamine differed based on patients' 
baseline temporal summation of pain.
RESULTS: Of the sample of 225 patients, 113 received ketamine and 112 received 
placebo. The majority of patients underwent lumpectomy (53%), with 16% 
undergoing mastectomy and 30% mastectomy with reconstruction. There were no 
significant treatment group differences in pain severity or impact reported two 
weeks after surgery. However, moderation analysis revealed that among patients 
with higher baseline temporal summation of pain, ketamine was associated with 
lower pain severity and impact scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Ketamine was not associated with an analgesic benefit over placebo 
in the acute postoperative period, as measured using a variety of pain 
assessments. However, exploratory moderation analysis suggested that patients 
with evidence of a greater central sensitization at baseline may derive an 
analgesic effect of ketamine. These findings support future collection of 
baseline phenotypic patient characteristics related to relevant mechanisms in 
trials, to identify which patients may derive a larger benefit from analgesic 
interventions.

Copyright © 2025 American Society of Anesthesiologists. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/ALN.0000000000005649
PMID: 40663518

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


74. JCI Insight. 2025 Jul 15:e193091. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.193091. Online
ahead  of print.

Elevated tumor NOS2/COX2 promotes immunosuppressive phenotypes associated with 
poor survival in ER- breast cancer patients.

Ridnour LA(1), Cheng RY(1), Heinz WF(2), Pore M(3), Gonzalez AL(1), Femino 
EL(1), Moffat RL(4), Wink AL(2), Imtiaz F(2), Coutinho LL(1), Butcher D(5), 
Edmondson EF(5), Rangel MC(6), Wong ST(7), Lipkowitz S(8), Glynn SA(9), Vitek 
MP(10), McVicar DW(1), Li X(11), Anderson SK(1), Paolocci N(12), Hewitt SM(13), 
Ambs S(14), Billiar TR(15), Chang JC(7), Lockett SJ(2), Wink DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Innovation Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute, NIH, Frederick, United States of America.
(2)Optical Microscopy and Analysis Laboratory, Cancer Research Technology Prog, 
Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, 
NIH, Frederick, United States of America.
(3)Imaging Mass Cytometry Laboratory, Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer 
Research, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Frederick, United States of America.
(4)Optical Microscopy and Analysis Laboratory, Office of Science and Technolog, 
Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Frederick, United 
States of America.
(5)Molecular Histopathology Laboratory, Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer 
Research, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Frederick, United States of America.
(6)Center for Translational Research in Oncology, ICESP/HC, Faculdade de 
Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(7)Department of Systems Medicine and Bioengineering, Houston Methodist 
Hospital, Houston, United States of America.
(8)Women's Malignancies Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute, NIH, Bethesda, United States of America.
(9)Discipline of Pathology, Lambe Institute for Translational Research, School 
of Medicine, University of Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(10)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Duke University, Durham, United 
States of America.
(11)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, United States of America.
(12)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, United States of America.
(13)Laboratory of Pathology, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute, NIH, Bethesda, United States of America.
(14)Laboratory of Human Carcinogenesis, Center for Cancer Research, National 
Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, United States of America.
(15)Department of Surgery, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, United States of America.

Tumor immunosuppression impacts survival and treatment efficacy. Tumor NOS2/COX2 
coexpression strongly predicts poor outcome in ER- breast cancer by promoting 
metastasis, drug resistance, cancer stemness, and immune suppression. Herein, a 
spatially distinct NOS2/COX2 and CD3+CD8+PD1- T effector (TEff) cell landscape 
correlated with poor survival in ER- tumors. NOS2 was primarily expressed at the 
tumor margin, whereas COX2 together with B7H4 was associated with immune desert 
regions lacking TEff cells, where a higher ratio of tumor NOS2 or COX2 to TEff 
cells predicted poor survival. Also, PDL1/PD1, regulatory T cells (TReg) and 
IDO1 were primarily associated with stroma restricted TEff cells. Regardless of 
the survival outcome, CD4+ T cells and macrophages were primarily in stromal 
lymphoid aggregates. Finally, in a 4T1 model, COX2 inhibition led to increased 
CD8+ TEff/CD4+ TReg ratio and CD8+ TEff infiltration while Nos2 deficiency had 
no significant effect, thus reinforcing our observations that COX2 is an 
essential component of immunosuppression through CD8+ TEff cell exclusion from 
the tumor. Our study indicates that tumor NOS2/COX2 expression plays a central 
role in tumor immune evasion, suggesting that strategies combining clinically 
available NOS2/COX2 inhibitors with immune therapy could provide effective 
options for the treatment of aggressive and drug-resistant ER- breast tumors.

DOI: 10.1172/jci.insight.193091
PMID: 40663402


75. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s10549-025-07780-w. Online
 ahead of print.

Time and location of specialty palliative care for women dying with metastatic 
breast cancer.

King A(1), Ortiz C(2), Goswami R(1)(3), Kaufmann TL(4)(5), Lee M(3)(6), 
Ibekwe-Agunanna L(3)(7), Sadeghi N(1)(3)(8), Yang DM(6), Cowell LG(6)(9), Hogan 
TP(2)(10), Wallner LP(11), Mullins MA(12)(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd, Dallas, TX, 75390, USA.
(2)Department of Health Economics, Systems, and Policy, Peter O'Donnell Jr. 
School of Public Health, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA.
(3)Harold C. Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center, UT Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Geisel School of Medicine, Lebanon, NH, USA.
(5)Dartmouth Cancer Center, Lebanon, NH, USA.
(6)Department of Health Data Science & Biostatistics, Peter O'Donnell Jr. School 
of Public, Health University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, 
USA.
(7)Department of Social & Behavioral Sciences, Peter O'Donnell Jr. School of 
Public, Health University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(8)Parkland Health, Dallas, TX, USA.
(9)Department of Immunology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA.
(10)Center for Health Optimization and Implementation Research (CHOIR), VA 
Bedford Healthcare System, Bedford, MA, USA.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(12)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd, Dallas, TX, 75390, USA. 
megan.mullins@utsouthwestern.edu.
(13)Department of Health Economics, Systems, and Policy, Peter O'Donnell Jr. 
School of Public Health, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA. megan.mullins@utsouthwestern.edu.
(14)Harold C. Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center, UT Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, TX, USA. megan.mullins@utsouthwestern.edu.

BACKGROUND: Despite guideline recommendations, evidence suggests many women with 
metastatic breast cancer (mBC) do not receive specialty palliative care services 
despite high morbidity burden. Given the varied prognoses and disease 
trajectories of women with mBC, relatively little is known about palliative care 
delivery in this growing population, including timing and frequency of visits, 
location (inpatient vs. outpatient), and reasons for referral.
METHODS: Using electronic health record and tumor registry data from a North 
Texas Comprehensive Cancer Center (2010-2023), we identified women who died with 
de novo or recurrent mBC. We examined receipt of palliative care (inpatient and 
outpatient), reasons for referral, and timing of palliative care encounters by 
duration of patient survival. We used multivariable logistic regression to 
assess associations between receipt of specialty palliative care and 
demographic, clinical, and survival characteristics.
RESULTS: Among 265 women with mBC, 55.5% received no palliative care. Only women 
with short survival (< 18 months) received palliative care within 8 weeks of 
diagnosis. Most palliative care encounters were inpatient and occurred 
within ~ 1 month of death. In adjusted models, comorbidities and younger age 
were strongly associated with receiving outpatient palliative care. Most women 
were referred to palliative care for multiple reasons, with long-term survivors 
more likely to be referred for goals of care discussions alone.
CONCLUSION: Palliative care for women with mBC is infrequent and often late, 
with referrals seemingly driven by the imminence of death rather than metastatic 
diagnosis. Strategies to better identify and triage specialty palliative care 
needs and make timely referrals are needed.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-025-07780-w
PMID: 40663313

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


76. Clin Exp Metastasis. 2025 Jul 15;42(5):40. doi: 10.1007/s10585-025-10362-1.

Loss of IL13RA2 promotes metastatic tumor growth in triple-negative breast 
cancer via increased AKT and NF-κB signaling.

Bindeman WE(1), Corn KC(2), Rafat M(1)(2)(3)(4), Fingleton B(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Program in Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, TN, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, 
USA.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.
(5)Program in Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA. 
barbara.fingleton@vanderbilt.edu.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University, 2220 Pierce Ave, 771 PRB, 
Nashville, TN, 37232, USA. barbara.fingleton@vanderbilt.edu.

Triple-negative breast cancer is associated with poor patient prognosis and high 
rates of distant metastasis. These patients are at elevated risk of brain 
metastasis, which remains a major therapeutic challenge. IL13RA2, a 
high-affinity receptor for IL13, is highly expressed in primary brain cancers, 
many extracranial solid tumors, and in lung- and brain-seeking metastatic 
variant cell lines. However, the relationship between IL13RA2 and patient 
prognosis is variable, and the biological function of this receptor in cancer 
remains controversial. We sought to define the role of IL13RA2 in 
triple-negative breast cancer growth and metastasis, with an emphasis on 
breast-to-brain metastasis. We generated IL13RA2-CRISPR knockout derivatives of 
the human brain-seeking breast cancer cell line MDA231BrM2, as well as murine 
4T1 cells, and evaluated changes in gene expression, proliferation, survival, 
and metastatic growth in vivo. Both IL13RA2-deficient models demonstrate 
enhanced cell survival in vitro, as well as augmented metastatic tumor growth 
and worsened animal survival in intracardiac models of brain metastasis. 
Concordantly, elevated IL13RA2 mRNA expression is positively correlated with 
overall survival in patients with basal-like breast cancer. Mechanistically, 
IL13RA2-deficient cells exhibit increased AKT and NF-κB signaling. These cells 
are sensitive to inhibition of either pathway, but especially AKT, which may 
represent a clinically useful vulnerability for patients with IL13RA2-low 
tumors. Our data suggest that inhibition of IL13RA2, though promising in other 
tumor contexts, may be deleterious in metastatic triple-negative breast cancer.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10585-025-10362-1
PMID: 40663259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: All animal 
studies were approved by Vanderbilt’s Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee (protocol M2300038-00). Competing interests: Barbara Fingleton is a 
member of the editorial board for Clinical and Experimental Metastasis.


77. Cancer Causes Control. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s10552-025-02031-1. Online 
ahead of print.

History of family member incarceration during childhood and receipt of cancer 
screenings during adulthood in the United States.

Zhao J(1)(2), Miller KH(3)(4), Star J(3), Bandi P(3), Yabroff KR(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Surveillance and Health Equity Science, American Cancer Society, 270 
Peachtree Street NW, Atlanta, GA, 30303, USA. Jingxuan.zhao@cancer.org.
(2)Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA. 
Jingxuan.zhao@cancer.org.
(3)Surveillance and Health Equity Science, American Cancer Society, 270 
Peachtree Street NW, Atlanta, GA, 30303, USA.
(4)Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.

PURPOSE: To examine the association between family member incarceration (FMI) 
during childhood and receipt of breast, colorectal, cervical, and lung cancer 
screenings.
METHODS: Adults with and without FMI during childhood were identified from the 
2020 and/or 2022 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System surveys. Using 
multivariate logistic regression, we examined the associations of FMI and 
receipt of past year and guideline-concordant cancer screening, adjusting for 
age, sex, marital status, number of health conditions, state of residence, 
number of other adverse childhood experiences, and survey year with sequential 
adjustment for socioeconomic factors (educational attainment, home ownership, 
and health insurance coverage).
RESULTS: Adults eligible for breast (n = 45954), colorectal (n = 25135), 
cervical (n = 31789), and lung (n = 3646) cancer screenings were included. 
Having FMI was associated with lower likelihood of receiving past year and 
guideline-concordant breast cancer screening [odds ratio: 0.81(0.67-0.99); 
0.77(0.61-0.96)] and guideline-concordant lung cancer screening 
[0.44(0.24-0.80)]. The associations were attenuated with additional adjustment 
for socioeconomic factors [past year and guideline-concordant breast cancer 
screening: 0.83(0.68-1.01) and 0.81(0.65-1.02); lung cancer screening: 
0.44(0.25-0.81)].
CONCLUSION: Having FMI during childhood was associated with a lower likelihood 
of receiving breast and lung cancer screenings in adulthood. Programs to improve 
receipt of cancer screenings among people with FMI are warranted.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10552-025-02031-1
PMID: 40663249

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


78. Cancer Causes Control. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s10552-025-02029-9. Online 
ahead of print.

Where are we now and where do we go from here? A structured literature review 
analyzing the current state of breast density research trends and discussions.

Purdue G(1), Wallington SF(2)(3)(4), Mehta AK(5).

Author information:
(1)George Washington University School of Nursing, 1919 Pennsylvania Avenue, 
Suite 500, Washington DC, 20006, USA.
(2)George Washington University School of Nursing, 1919 Pennsylvania Avenue, 
Suite 500, Washington DC, 20006, USA. sflyntwalling31@gwu.edu.
(3)George Washington Milken Institutes School of Public Health, Washington DC, 
USA. sflyntwalling31@gwu.edu.
(4)George Washington Cancer Center, Washington DC, USA. sflyntwalling31@gwu.edu.
(5)George Washington Medical Faculty Associates, Washington DC, USA.

PURPOSE: This structured literature review has been conducted to identify and 
map existing research on patient understanding of breast density, its 
implications for breast cancer risk, and the effects of breast density 
notification laws on supplemental screening and patient-provider communication. 
The study aimed to synthesize key research themes and identify gaps in the 
literature related to breast density awareness, communication, and policy 
impacts.
METHODS: The public health and medical literature were searched in the National 
Library of Medicine's online database, PubMed. Articles were limited to 
U.S.-based research projects, and specifically excluded other literature 
reviews.
RESULTS: This examination resulted in a review of 69 articles and themes that 
included breast density risk, racial differences and disparities, the impact of 
the notification laws on knowledge and reactions regarding notification, how 
notification laws impacted supplemental screening, the impacts within vulnerable 
populations, provider knowledge, patient's understanding and perceptions, and 
effectiveness and comprehension of potential educational and decision aid 
materials used.
CONCLUSION: Based on the review, recommendations for future research and 
improved communications-both patient notifications and provider training-are 
made.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10552-025-02029-9
PMID: 40663248

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interest: The authors 
have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose and have no 
competing interests to declare that are relevant to the content of this article. 
Consent to participate: As a literature review study, there were no human 
subjects. As such, the Institutional Review Board did not require an informed 
consent process.


79. Invest New Drugs. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s10637-025-01552-5. Online ahead
of  print.

Safety and pharmacokinetics of FCN-437c, a novel cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 
inhibitor, in Chinese patients with hepatic impairment.

Xu J(1), Liu J(1), Ding Y(2), Yang X(3), Fu Y(4), Sun Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Phase I Clinical Trial Unit, First Hospital, Jilin University, Changchun, 
China.
(2)Phase I Clinical Trial Unit, First Hospital, Jilin University, Changchun, 
China. dingyanh@jlu.edu.cn.
(3)AVANC PHARMACEUTICAL CO., LTD, Dongzhou Road, Bixi Street, 215513, Changshu 
City, Jiangsu, China. yangxiaoran@avancpharma.com.
(4)AVANC PHARMACEUTICAL CO., LTD, Dongzhou Road, Bixi Street, 215513, Changshu 
City, Jiangsu, China.
(5)Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co Ltd, Building A, No. 1289 Yishan Road, 
200233, Shanghai, China.

This study explored the impact of hepatic impairment on the safety and 
pharmacokinetics (PK) of FCN-437c, a novel dual CDK4/6 inhibitor for potential 
breast cancer treatment. In an open-label trial, 25 subjects (8 with mild 
hepatic impairment, 8 with moderate hepatic impairment, and 8 healthy controls 
matched for age, sex, and body weight) received a single 200-mg dose of 
FCN-437c. Results showed that FCN-437c was generally well-tolerated, with no 
serious adverse events. In mild hepatic impairment group, total FCN-437c Cmax 
increased by 9.5%, while AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ decreased by 4.8%. Free drug exposure 
increased by 24.7%, 8.4%, and 8.4%. In moderate hepatic impairment group, total 
FCN-437c Cmax, AUC0-t, and AUC0-∞ decreased by 16.7%, 17.1%, and 15.7%, and free 
drug exposure increased by 47.8%, 47.0%, and 49.6%. Overall, no clinically 
relevant differences in FCN-437c exposure were found between subjects with mild 
or moderate hepatic impairment and normal controls, but moderate hepatic 
impairment increased free drug exposure. Thus, no dose adjustment is needed for 
patients with mild hepatic impairment, but a reduced dose may be necessary for 
those with moderate hepatic impairment. Trial Registration: 
www.clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT06620731 (retrospectively registered).

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10637-025-01552-5
PMID: 40663244

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


80. J Bioenerg Biomembr. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s10863-025-10066-x. Online
ahead  of print.

E2F7 transcriptionally upregulates SPC24 to mediate aerobic Glycolysis and 
facilitate stemness of breast cancer.

Yun W(1), Mao C(1), Yuan Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Jiangsu Cancer Hospital & Jiangsu Institute of 
Cancer Research & The Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Jiangsu Cancer Hospital & Jiangsu Institute of Cancer 
Research & The Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, No. 42 
Baiziting Street, Nanjing, 210009, Jiangsu, China. yyuan1981@163.com.

Metabolic reprogramming characterized by aerobic glycolysis is observed in 
various cancers, including breast cancer (BC), exerting essential influence on 
maintaining cancer stemness. The abnormal expression of SPC24 is linked to the 
occurrence and development of various cancers, but its role in BC remains 
unelucidated. Bioinformatics analysis was undertaken to determine the levels of 
SPC24 and E2F7 in BC, and the enriched signaling pathways of SPC24 with 
differential expression, which were validated through cell experiments. The 
transcriptional regulatory relationship between E2F7 and SPC24 was also assessed 
through bioinformatics analysis, with validation completed by dual luciferase 
assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). To evaluate BC stemness, we 
employed the western blot (WB) to detect the levels of CD44, CD133, Oct-4, and 
ALDH1A1, and conducted the cell sphere formation. Flow cytometry was used to 
detect the proportion of stem cells. To assess the level of glycolysis in BC 
cells, we detected the expression of key proteins LDHA, HK2, and GLUT1 through 
WB, and measured the extracellular acidification rate and oxygen consumption 
rate with kits. Cell experiments combining bioinformatics analysis demonstrated 
that both E2F7 and SPC24 were greatly upregulated in BC, with SPC24 primarily 
enriched in the glycolysis metabolic pathway. Further experiments manifested 
that SPC24 reinforced cell stemness through aerobic glycolysis reprogramming, 
and SPC24 was modulated by transcription factor E2F7. E2F7 transcriptionally 
activates the upregulation of SPC24 in BC, which boosts stemness through aerobic 
glycolysis reprogramming.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10863-025-10066-x
PMID: 40663204

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not Applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


81. J Mol Histol. 2025 Jul 15;56(4):226. doi: 10.1007/s10735-025-10468-6.

SOX4 promotes triple-negative breast cancer progression by promoting 
SRPX2 transcription to regulate AKR1C1.

Ge W(1), Shi C(2), Ge C(3), Zhang S(1), Chen S(1), Qian J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Rudong County Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Rudong, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Nantong First People's Hospital, No. 666, Shengli 
Road, Guanyinshan Street, Nantong, 226001, China.
(3)Department of Basic Medicine, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Nantong First People's Hospital, No. 666, Shengli 
Road, Guanyinshan Street, Nantong, 226001, China. qjinfeng@ntu.edu.cn.

Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a specific subtype of breast cancer that 
poses a serious threat to women's health. The aldo-keto reductase type 1 C 
(AKR1C) family serves as a crucial ferroptosis defense system, catalyzing the 
conversion of aldehydes and ketones into their corresponding alcohols. SRY-Box4 
(SOX4), a transcription factor of the SOX (sry-related HMG-box) family, is 
important in regulating tumor progression. This study aims to investigate the 
mechanism through which AKR1C1 mediates the growth, invasion, and ferroptosis of 
triple-negative breast cancer cells. SRPX2 was highly expressed in TNBC tissues 
and cells and was detrimental to patient prognosis. SRPX2 knockdown inhibited 
TNBC cell viability, invasion, and Stemness of tumor while promoting TNBC cell 
apoptosis and ferroptosis. SOX4 could bind to SRPX2 and was highly expressed in 
TNBC tissues and cells, down-regulation of SOX4 could inhibit the expression of 
SRPX2. Silencing SRPX2 inhibited the expression of AKR1C1. Up-regulating AKR1C1 
reversed the inhibitory effect of SRPX2 knockdown on cell viability, invasion, 
and sphere formation abilities, and also reversed the promotive effect on 
apoptosis in TNBC cells. In vivo, SRPX2 knockdown suppressed tumor growth and 
expression of Ki67 and AKR1C1 via down-regulated AKR1C1. SOX4 facilitates 
triple-negative breast cancer progression via promoting SRPX2 transcription to 
regulate AKR1C. This study is expected to explore potential therapeutic targets 
and strategies for the treatment of TNBC.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10735-025-10468-6
PMID: 40663167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval and consent to participate: The 
study had been authorized by the Ethics Committee of Nantong First People’s 
Hospital. Each participant in this research gave their consent after being fully 
informed. Authorization for xenograft experiments was given by the Committee on 
Animal Welfare and Utilization of Nantong First People’s Hospital. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable.


82. Clin Lab. 2025 Jul 1;71(7). doi: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2025.241128.

Exploration of the Relationship between Macrophage-Related Proteins and the Risk 
and Prognosis of Breast Cancer.

Ma HF, He QN, Lu Y, Shen J.

BACKGROUND: Macrophage-related proteins play a crucial role in breast cancer. 
The present study explored the relationship between macrophage-related proteins 
and breast cancer using Mendelian randomization (MR) for genetic variations and 
bioinformatics methods for transcriptomics.
METHODS: Genetic instruments associated with macrophage migration inhibitory 
factor (MIF), macrophage inflammatory protein 1α (MIP-1α), macrophage 
inflammatory protein 1β (MIP-1β), and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating 
factor (GM-CSF) were gathered from genome-wide association studies (GWAS). The 
MR analysis was conducted using R software packages 'TwoSampleMR' and 
'MRPRESSO', employing MR-Egger, in-verse-variance weighted (IVW), weighted 
median, simple mode, and MR-PRESSO algorithms. In addition, data from the UCSC 
Xena database provided the TCGA BRCA dataset for a 5-year overall survival 
analysis of MIP-1α.
RESULTS: IVW analysis showed a significant positive association between MIP-1α 
and breast cancer incidence (OR = 1.0837, 95% CI: 1.0284 - 1.142), and the 
MR-PRESSO result also confirmed a causal relationship between them (OR = 1.0789, 
95% CI: 1.0266 - 1.1338). There was no significant causal relationship found 
between MIF, MIP-1B, GM-CSF, and breast cancer. Survival analysis revealed that 
CCL3 was associated with prognosis in breast cancer patients in the Cox 
proportional-hazard model (HR = 1.5000, 95% CI: 1.0110 - 2.2250).
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated levels of macrophage inflammatory protein 1A may increase 
the risk of breast cancer and lead to poorer patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2025.241128
PMID: 40663091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Clin Lab. 2025 Jul 1;71(7). doi: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2025.241132.

Pan-Cancer Bioinformatics Analysis of Matrix Metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9).

Zhan Q, Lan M, Huang W, Chi Y, Zhang D.

BACKGROUND: Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9) is a member of the matrix 
metalloproteinase family of proteases that have been linked to several major 
normal and pathologic processes. Although cell-based, animal-based, or 
clinical-based evidence supports the relationship between MMP9 and cancers, the 
role of MMP9 in pan-cancer is still not fully understood.
METHODS: We explored the prognostic value and potential immunological roles of 
MMP9 in 33 cancer types using the Cancer Genome Atlas datasets.
RESULTS: MMP9 is highly expressed at the RNA level in most cancers but is 
present at a low protein level in breast cancer, liver cancer, lung 
adenocarcinoma, and ovarian cancer. Furthermore, there are distinct associations 
be-tween MMP9 expression and tumor patient prognosis. MMP9 expression was found 
to be associated with tumor mutational burden and microsatellite instability in 
eight cancer types, whereas it was associated with DNA methylation at multiple 
probes in 31 cancer types. Additionally, MMP9 expression was positively 
associated with the infiltration levels of most immune cells in 33 cancer types. 
Moreover, extracellular matrix organizing-related and collagen 
metabolism-related functions are involved in the functional mechanism of MMP9.
CONCLUSIONS: Our pancancer study offers a relatively comprehensive understanding 
of the role of MMP9 in tumorigenesis and tumor immunity in different tumors.

DOI: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2025.241132
PMID: 40663084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Radiology. 2025 Jul;316(1):e241629. doi: 10.1148/radiol.241629.

Cancer Detection in Breast MRI Screening via Explainable AI Anomaly Detection.

Oviedo F(1), Kazerouni AS(2), Liznerski P(3), Xu Y(1), Hirano M(2), Vandermeulen 
RA(4)(5), Kloft M(3), Blum E(2), Alessio AM(6), Li CI(7), Weeks WB(1), Dodhia 
R(1), Lavista Ferres JM(1), Rahbar H(2)(7), Partridge SC(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)AI for Good Lab, Microsoft, 1 Microsoft Way, 4330 150th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 
98052.
(2)Department of Radiology, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle, Wash.
(3)University of Kaiserslautern-Landau, Kaiserslautern, Germany.
(4)Berlin Institute for the Foundations of Learning and Data, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Machine Learning Group, Technical University of Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(6)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, Mich.
(7)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, Seattle, Wash.

Background Artificial intelligence (AI) models hold potential to increase the 
accuracy and efficiency of breast MRI screening; however, existing models have 
not been rigorously evaluated in populations with low cancer prevalence and lack 
interpretability, both of which are essential for clinical adoption. Purpose To 
develop an explainable AI model for cancer detection at breast MRI that is 
effective in both high- and low-cancer-prevalence settings. Materials and 
Methods This retrospective study included 9738 breast MRI examinations from a 
single institution (2005-2022), with external testing in a publicly available 
multicenter dataset (221 examinations). In total, 9567 consecutive examinations 
were used to develop an explainable fully convolutional data description (FCDD) 
anomaly detection model to detect malignancies on contrast-enhanced MRI scans. 
Performance was evaluated in three cohorts: grouped cross-validation (for both 
balanced [20.0% malignant] and imbalanced [1.85% malignant] detection tasks), an 
internal independent test set (171 examinations), and an external dataset. 
Explainability was assessed through pixelwise comparisons with 
reference-standard malignancy annotations. Statistical significance was assessed 
using the Wilcoxon signed rank test. Results FCDD outperformed the benchmark 
binary cross-entropy (BCE) model in cross-validation for both balanced (mean 
area under the receiver operating characteristic curve [AUC] = 0.84 ± 0.01 [SD] 
vs 0.81 ± 0.01; P < .001) and imbalanced (mean AUC = 0.72 ± 0.03 vs 0.69 ± 0.03; 
P < .001) detection tasks. At a fixed 97% sensitivity in the imbalanced setting, 
mean specificity across folds was 13% for FCDD and 9% for BCE (P = .02). In the 
internal test set, FCDD outperformed BCE for balanced (mean AUC = 0.81 ± 0.02 vs 
0.72 ± 0.02; P < .001) and imbalanced (mean AUC = 0.78 ± 0.05 vs 0.76 ± 0.01; P 
< .02) detection tasks. For model explainability, FCDD demonstrated better 
spatial agreement with reference-standard annotations than BCE (internal test 
set: mean pixelwise AUC = 0.92 ± 0.10 vs 0.81 ± 0.13; P < .001). External 
testing confirmed that FCDD performed well, and better than BCE, in the balanced 
detection task (AUC = 0.86 ± 0.01 vs 0.79 ± 0.01; P < .001). Conclusion The 
developed explainable AI model for cancer detection at breast MRI accurately 
depicted tumor location and outperformed commonly used models in both high- and 
low-cancer-prevalence scenarios. © RSNA, 2025 Supplemental material is available 
for this article. See also the editorial by Bae and Ham in this issue.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.241629
PMID: 40662973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Radiology. 2025 Jul;316(1):e251790. doi: 10.1148/radiol.251790.

Explainable AI in MRI for Breast Cancer Detection: Another Step Forward.

Bae MS(1), Ham S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Korea University Ansan Hospital, Korea University 
College of Medicine, 46 Gaeunsa 2-gil, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 02842, South Korea.
(2)Healthcare Readiness Institute for Unified Korea, Korea University Ansan 
Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.251790
PMID: 40662967


86. J Occup Environ Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1097/JOM.0000000000003495. Online 
ahead of print.

The incidence of postmenopausal breast cancer in relation to occupational 
exposure to textile fibers and dusts in Montreal, Canada, 2008-2011.

Ka MM, Labrèche F, Goldberg MS(1), Ho V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, McGill University Health Center, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the associations between occupational exposure to textile 
fibers/dusts, and incidence of postmenopausal invasive breast cancer.
METHODS: A population-based case-control study conducted in Montreal (2008 - 
2011) identified hospital cases (N = 695) and population controls (N = 608) from 
the electoral list. Occupational hygienists examined participants' occupations 
and tasks, and attributed exposures to several textile fibers. For all tumors 
and according to biomolecular subtypes, odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence 
intervals (95%CI) were estimated using logistic regression models with different 
exposure indices, adjusting for potential confounders.
RESULTS: Ever exposure to cotton dust was associated with an increased risk (OR 
= 1.42, 95%CI = 0.95-2.16) as was ever exposure to treated textile fibers before 
age 36 years and/or before first full-term pregnancy (OR = 1.39, 95%IC = 
0.97-2.01).
CONCLUSIONS: These suggestive associations and the rapid evolution of textile 
fibers treatment warrant additional scrutiny, especially among younger women.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine.

DOI: 10.1097/JOM.0000000000003495
PMID: 40662965

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None Declared.


87. Oncoimmunology. 2025 Dec;14(1):2520269. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2025.2520269.
Epub  2025 Jul 15.

An immunological mechanism of resistance to CDK4/6 inhibitors in HR(+) breast 
cancer.

Galassi C(1), Petroni G(2), Knott SRV(3), Galluzzi L(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, 
Florence, Italy.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.
(4)Cancer Signaling and Microenvironment Program, Fox Chase Cancer Center, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.

CDK4/6 inhibitors are central to the clinical management of HR+HER2- breast 
cancer. We have recently demonstrated that immunosuppressive, IL17-secreting γδ 
T cells recruited to the tumor microenvironment by a CCL2-dependent mechanism 
upon CDK4/6 inhibition can repolarize tumor-associated macrophages toward a 
CX3CR1+ phenotype associated with resistance to therapy.

DOI: 10.1080/2162402X.2025.2520269
PMID: 40662849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Bioinformatics. 2025 Jul 1;41(Supplement_1):i561-i570. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf180.

RVINN: a flexible modeling for inferring dynamic transcriptional and 
post-transcriptional regulation using physics-informed neural networks.

Muto O(1)(2), Guo Z(1)(2), Yamaguchi R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Systems Biology, Aichi Cancer Center Research Institute, 
Nagoya, 464-8681, Japan.
(2)Division of Cancer Informatics, Nagoya University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan.

SUMMARY: Dynamic gene expression is controlled by transcriptional and 
post-transcriptional regulation. Recent studies on transcriptional bursting and 
buffering have increasingly highlighted the dynamic gene regulatory mechanisms. 
However, direct measurement techniques still face various constraints and 
require complementary methodologies, which are both comprehensive and versatile. 
To address this issue, inference approaches based on transcriptome data and 
differential equation models representing the messenger RNA lifecycle have been 
proposed. However, the inference of complex dynamics under diverse experimental 
conditions and biological scenarios remains challenging. In this study, we 
developed a flexible modeling using physics-informed neural networks and 
demonstrated its performance using simulation and experimental data. Our model 
has the ability to computationally revalidate and visualize dynamic biological 
phenomena, such as transcriptional ripple, co-bursting, and buffering in a 
breast cancer cell line. Furthermore, our results suggest putative molecular 
mechanisms underlying these phenomena. We propose a novel approach for inferring 
transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation and expect to offer valuable 
insights for experimental and systems biology.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: https://github.com/omuto/RVINN.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf180
PMID: 40662812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Bioinformatics. 2025 Jul 1;41(Supplement_1):i609-i618. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf213.

GRACKLE: an interpretable matrix factorization approach for biomedical 
representation learning.

Gillenwater LA(1)(2)(3), Hunter LE(4), Costello JC(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Aurora, CO, 80045, United States.
(2)Computational Bioscience Program, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical 
Campus, Aurora, CO, 80045, United States.
(3)Linda Crnic Institute for Down Syndrome, University of Colorado Anschutz 
Medical Campus, Aurora, CO, 80045, United States.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, 60637, United 
States.
(5)Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical 
Campus, Aurora, CO, 80045, United States.

MOTIVATION: Disruption in normal gene expression can contribute to the 
development of diseases and chronic conditions. However, identifying 
disease-specific gene signatures can be challenging due to the presence of 
multiple co-occurring conditions and limited sample sizes. Unsupervised 
representation learning methods, such as matrix decomposition and deep learning, 
simplify high-dimensional data into understandable patterns, but often do not 
provide clear biological explanations. Incorporating prior biological knowledge 
directly can enhance understanding and address small sample sizes. Nevertheless, 
current models do not jointly consider prior knowledge of molecular interactions 
and sample labels.
RESULTS: We present GRACKLE, a novel nonnegative matrix factorization approach 
that applies Graph Regularization Across Contextual KnowLedgE. GRACKLE 
integrates sample similarity and gene similarity matrices based on sample 
metadata and molecular relationships, respectively. Simulation studies show 
GRACKLE outperformed other NMF algorithms, especially with increased background 
noise. GRACKLE effectively stratified breast tumor samples and identified 
condition-enriched subgroups in individuals with Down syndrome. The model's 
latent representations aligned with known biological patterns, such as 
autoimmune conditions and sleep apnea in Down syndrome. GRACKLE's flexibility 
allows application to various data modalities, offering a robust solution for 
identifying context-specific molecular mechanisms in biomedical research.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: GRACKLE is available at: 
https://github.com/lagillenwater/GRACKLE.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf213
PMID: 40662804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Bioinformatics. 2025 Jul 1;41(Supplement_1):i207-i216. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf179.

HIDE: hierarchical cell-type deconvolution.

Völkl D(1)(2), Mensching-Buhr M(1)(3), Sterr T(3), Bolz S(4), Schäfer A(2), 
Seifert N(3), Tauschke J(5), Rayford A(6), Straume O(7), Zacharias HU(5), 
Grellscheid SN(1), Beissbarth T(3), Altenbuchinger M(3), Görtler F(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Computational Biology Unit, Department of Informatics, University of Bergen, 
Postboks 7803, Bergen NO-5020, Norway.
(2)Institute of Theoretical Physics, University of Regensburg, Regensburg 93053, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Medical Bioinformatics, University Medical Center Göttingen, 
Göttingen 37075, Germany.
(4)Institute of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of Regensburg, 
Regensburg 93053, Germany.
(5)Peter L. Reichertz Institute for Medical Informatics of TU Braunschweig and 
Hannover Medical School, Hannover Medical School, Hannover 30625, Germany.
(6)Department of Biomedicine and Centre for Cancer Biomarkers, University of 
Bergen, Bergen N-5008, Norway.
(7)Cancer Clinic, Haukeland University Hospital, Haukelandsveien 22, Bergen 
N-5021, Norway.

MOTIVATION: Cell-type deconvolution is a computational approach to infer 
cellular distributions from bulk transcriptomics data. Several methods have been 
proposed, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. Reference based 
approaches make use of archetypic transcriptomic profiles representing 
individual cell types. Those reference profiles are ideally chosen such that the 
observed bulks can be reconstructed as a linear combination thereof. This 
strategy, however, ignores the fact that cellular populations arise through the 
process of cellular differentiation, which entails the gradual emergence of cell 
groups with diverse morphological and functional characteristics.
RESULTS: Here, we propose Hierarchical cell-type Deconvolution (HIDE), a 
cell-type deconvolution approach which incorporates a cell hierarchy for 
improved performance and interpretability. This is achieved by a hierarchical 
procedure that preserves estimates of major cell populations while inferring 
their respective subpopulations. We show in simulation studies that this 
procedure produces more reliable and more consistent results than other 
state-of-the-art approaches. Finally, we provide an example application of HIDE 
to explore breast cancer specimens from TCGA.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: A python implementation of HIDE is available at 
zenodo (doi: 10.5281/zenodo.14724906).

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf179
PMID: 40662776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Nano Lett. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.5c01830. Online ahead of 
print.

T-Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicles with an Antitransferrin Receptor Antibody 
for Multicancer Targeting.

Cho H(1), Ju H(2), Shin S(3), Ahn Y(4), Park E(3), Jung I(3), Kang SM(2), Noh 
S(3), Shin J(3), Park JK(3), Jeong J(3), Seo D(4), Song BJ(5), Yea K(3), Baek 
MC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, Kyungpook National University School of 
Medicine, Daegu 41944, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine, CMRI, Kyungpook National University School 
of Medicine, Daegu 41944, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of New Biology, Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of Science & Technology, 
Daegu 42988, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Physics and Chemistry, Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of Science & 
Technology, Daegu 42988, Republic of Korea.
(5)Section of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, Laboratory of Membrane 
Biochemistry and Biophysics, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, 
National Institutes of Health (NIH), Bethesda, Maryland 20892, United States.

Recent research has explored the anticancer properties of immune-cell-derived 
small extracellular vesicles (sEVs), but many challenges, like the need for 
improved targeting, remain. To address these challenges, we engineered 
T-cell-derived sEVs with antitransferrin receptor 1 (TfR1) antibodies (T-EVs). 
This modification enhanced the delivery of sEV to six types of cancer cells, as 
confirmed by flow cytometry, immunocytochemistry, live cell imaging, and 
blocking experiments in vitro. The T-EVs also reduced PD-L1 and Rab27a levels, 
decreased sEV production from breast cancer cells, and increased susceptibility 
to CD8+ T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Systemically administered T-EVs 
efficiently targeted breast, lung, and skin tumors in mouse models. Notably, 
T-EVs significantly inhibited tumor growth without systemic toxicity. 
Additionally, T-EVs reduced PD-L1 and Rab27a levels in cancer cells while 
enhancing the CD8+ T-cell cytotoxicity and proliferation. Overall, this study 
highlights the anticancer effects of T-EVs against multiple cancer types, 
underscoring their potential in developing targeted cancer therapies.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.5c01830
PMID: 40662672


92. Stat Med. 2025 Jul;44(15-17):e70170. doi: 10.1002/sim.70170.

Robust Transfer Learning for High-Dimensional GLM Using γ -Divergence With 
Applications to Cancer Genomics.

Xu F(1)(2), Ma S(3), Zhang Q(2)(4), Xu Y(5).

Author information:
(1)International Institute of Finance, School of Management, University of 
Science and Technology of China, Anhui, China.
(2)The Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics, Xiamen University, Fujian, 
China.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.
(4)Department of Statistics and Data Science, School of Economics, Xiamen 
University, Fujian, China.
(5)School of Public Health, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, China.

In the analysis of complex diseases, high-dimensional profiling data is 
important for assessing risks and detecting biomarkers. With the increasing 
accessibility of cancer genomic data, the sample sizes remain limited in most 
studies. Hence, borrowing information from additional data sources is thus 
desirable to improve estimation and prediction. Transfer learning has been 
demonstrated to be flexible and effective in boosting modeling performance with 
a record in biomedical applications. In practice, outliers and even data 
contamination often occur. However, existing transfer learning methods often 
lack robustness to outliers and data contamination, issues commonly observed in 
real-world biomedical data. In this study, we propose a robust transfer learning 
approach based on the minimum γ -divergence under a generalized linear model 
(GLM) framework for high-dimensional data. Our method incorporates a data-driven 
source detection scheme that automatically identifies informative sources while 
mitigating the risk of negative transfer. We establish rigorous theoretical 
results, including consistency and high-dimensional estimation error bounds, 
ensuring robustness and reliable performance. A computationally efficient 
algorithm is developed based on proximal gradient descent to facilitate both the 
transfer and debiasing steps. Simulation demonstrates the superior and 
competitive performance of the proposed approach in selection and 
prediction/classification. We further validate its practical utility by 
analyzing data on breast cancer and glioblastoma, showcasing the method's 
effectiveness in real-world high-dimensional settings.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.70170
PMID: 40662636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Curr Pharm Des. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 10.2174/0113816128385024250625212516.
Online  ahead of print.

Recent Developments in Vesicular Nanocarriers for Targeted Drug Delivery in 
Breast Cancer.

Gautam S(1), Jindal P(1), Joshi S(1), Maurya R(2), Patel P(3), Gupta GD(2), 
Kurmi BD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Quality Assurance, ISF College of Pharmacy, GT Road, Moga, 
142001, Punjab, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, ISF College of Pharmacy, GT Road, Moga, 142001, 
Punjab, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, ISF College of Pharmacy, GT Road, 
Moga, 142001, Punjab, India.

Breast cancer remains one of the most challenging malignancies worldwide due to 
its heterogeneity, which affects tumor behavior, progression, and treatment 
response. The complexity of breast cancer necessitates innovative therapeutic 
strategies to improve treatment outcomes. This review explores the potential of 
vesicular nanocarriers, including liposomes, niosomes, ethosomes, polymerosomes, 
phytosomes, and transferosomes, in enhancing breast cancer treatment efficacy 
through targeted drug delivery. A detailed analysis of recent progress in the 
functionalization and application of vesicular nanocarriers is discussed, 
highlighting their contribution to enhancing pharmacokinetics, drug solubility, 
and targeted delivery. Both passive and active targeting strategies were 
assessed for their ability to enhance tumor-specific drug accumulation. 
Vesicular nanocarriers offer significant advantages, including reduced systemic 
toxicity, improved drug bioavailability, and precise delivery to cancer cells. 
Passive targeting utilizes the enhanced permeation and retention effect for 
tumor accumulation, while active targeting employs surface modifications with 
antibodies, aptamers, or peptides to enhance specificity. The integration of 
vesicular nanocarriers in breast cancer therapy presents a promising strategy 
for more effective and personalized treatment approaches. Their ability to 
optimize drug delivery and minimize off-target effects highlights their 
potential to revolutionize breast cancer treatment.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113816128385024250625212516
PMID: 40662550


94. Stat Med. 2025 Jul;44(15-17):e70163. doi: 10.1002/sim.70163.

Transfer Learning for Error-Contaminated Poisson Regression Models.

Wu JC(1), Chen LP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, National Chengchi University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.

Poisson regression model has been a popular approach to characterize the count 
response and the covariates. With the rapid development of data collections, the 
additional source information can be easily recorded. To efficiently use the 
source data to improve the estimation under the original data, the transfer 
learning method is considered a strategy. However, challenging issues from the 
given datasets include measurement error and high-dimensionality in variables, 
which are not well explored in the context of transfer learning. In this paper, 
we propose a novel strategy to handle error-prone count responses and estimate 
the parameters in measurement error models by using the source data, and then 
employ the transfer learning method to derive the corrected estimator. Moreover, 
to improve the prediction and avoid the model uncertainty, we further establish 
the model averaging strategy. Simulation and breast cancer data studies verify 
the satisfactory performance of the proposed method and the validity of handling 
measurement error.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.70163
PMID: 40662525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1080/14737140.2025.2535656. 
Online ahead of print.

Risk-reducing surgical timing in BRCA1/2 carriers following breast cancer in the 
era of PARP inhibitors.

Ergun Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Bower Hospital, Diyarbakır, Turkey.

DOI: 10.1080/14737140.2025.2535656
PMID: 40662477


96. J Cell Mol Med. 2025 Jul;29(13):e70673. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.70673.

Correction to "Circular RNA circHSPA8 Aggravates Metastasis by Acting as a 
Competitive Inhibitor of miR-195-5p to Upregulate WNT3A Expression in Breast 
Cancer".

[No authors listed]

Erratum for
    J Cell Mol Med. 2025 Mar;29(6):e70499. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.70499.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.70673
PMID: 40662468


97. Stat Med. 2025 Jul;44(15-17):e70141. doi: 10.1002/sim.70141.

Accounting for Patient Characteristics in a Model-Based Kappa of Agreement 
Between Two Experts' Ordinal Ratings.

Nelson KP(1), Zhou TJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, 
Silver Springs, Maryland, USA.

Cohen's kappa and other summary measures are often used in clinical studies to 
describe agreement and association between two experts' ordered categorical 
ratings. However, a key limitation of Cohen's kappa and similar measures is 
their inability to evaluate the impact of patient-related factors such as family 
history and age on the agreement and association between experts. Strong 
agreement between experts is an essential component of effective clinical 
procedures where subjective interpretation of patients' images or test results 
by an expert is required, for example, in the visual assessment of breast 
density from a mammogram. Not accounting for important patient-related factors 
can lead to inflated and biased assessments of agreement and association. In 
this article, our objective is to propose novel model-based measures that 
appropriately account for the impact of patient-related covariates on 
chance-corrected agreement and association between two experts' ordinal ratings 
that overcome limitations of existing measures. Our population-based approach is 
based on an ordinal generalized linear mixed model (GLMM). Rigorous simulation 
studies evaluating performance of the new model-based measures in a broad range 
of settings are reported. Existing and new measures are compared in two clinical 
applications assessing breast density and multiple sclerosis. Key advantages of 
the new kappa measures over existing measures such as Cohen's kappa include 
incorporating patient-related factors, robustness to underlying disease 
prevalence and marginal distributions of experts' ratings, and appropriately 
correcting for chance agreement. Sample R code is provided by the authors for 
application of proposed measures in other studies.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.70141
PMID: 40662445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J Clin Invest. 2025 Jul 15;135(14):e188492. doi: 10.1172/JCI188492.
eCollection  2025 Jul 15.

First-generation and preclinical evaluation of an EphA5-targeted antibody-drug 
conjugate in solid tumors.

Staquicini FI(1), Tang FH(2)(3), de Oliveira V(1), Kim SY(1), Chen ER(2)(3), 
Markosian C(2)(3), Staquicini DI(2)(3), Wu Y(1), Parsons JK(1), Barnhart KF(1), 
Alley SC(1), Chen I(1), Arap W(2)(4), Pasqualini R(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)MBrace Therapeutics, San Diego, California, USA.
(2)Rutgers Cancer Institute, Newark, New Jersey, USA.
(3)Division of Cancer Biology, Department of Radiation Oncology, and.
(4)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, Rutgers New Jersey 
Medical School, Newark, New Jersey, USA.

Contemporary cancer treatment strategies are shifting toward targeted therapies 
to improve efficacy and minimize toxicity. Here, we report the design and 
preclinical evaluation of MBRC-101, a first-in-class antibody-drug conjugate 
(ADC) targeting EphA5, a receptor tyrosine kinase with an established role in 
embryonic development but not extensively studied in cancer. We show that EphA5 
is expressed in multiple solid tumors, including cancers of the aerodigestive 
(non-small cell lung, head and neck, gastric, colon, and pancreatic) and 
genitourinary (bladder and ovary) tracts, as well as most breast cancer subsets 
(including triple-negative tumors), with limited expression in normal tissues. 
MBRC-101 is a humanized anti-EphA5 antibody conjugated to monomethyl auristatin 
E (MMAE) through a ThioBridge, thereby ensuring stable drug-to-antibody ratio 
and reducing off-target effects. MBRC-101 showed potent antitumor activity, 
achieving complete tumor regression in several patient-derived xenograft models. 
Preclinical Good Laboratory Practice-compliant toxicology studies in rats and 
nonhuman primates demonstrated that MBRC-101 is well tolerated, with observed 
toxicities limited to known MMAE off-target effects. These findings establish 
EphA5 as a therapeutic target in cancer and support the translational 
development of MBRC-101 as a promising ADC candidate for clinical evaluation, 
currently in a first-in-human multicenter investigational trial for patients 
with advanced solid tumors (ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT06014658).

DOI: 10.1172/JCI188492
PMID: 40662373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. J Clin Invest. 2025 Jul 15;135(14):e190470. doi: 10.1172/JCI190470.
eCollection  2025 Jul 15.

HIF-1 promotes murine breast cancer brain metastasis by increasing production of 
integrin β3-containing extracellular vesicles.

Yang Y(1)(2), Chen C(1)(3), Lyu Y(1)(3), Gololobova O(4), Guo X(2)(4), Huang 
TY(1)(3), Ramu V(5), Talwar V(5), Wicks EE(1), Salman S(1)(2), Drehmer D(1)(3), 
Dordai D(1)(3), Zuo Q(1), Witwer KW(4), Gabrielson KL(2)(4), Semenza 
GL(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Armstrong Oxygen Biology Research Center and Vascular Program, Institute for 
Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
Maryland, USA.
(2)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, 
Maryland, USA.
(3)Department of Genetic Medicine and.
(4)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(5)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Brain metastasis is a major cause of breast cancer (BC) mortality, but the 
cellular and molecular mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. BC cells must 
breach the blood-brain barrier in order to colonize the brain. Here, we 
determined that integrin β3 (ITGB3) expression mediated by hypoxia-inducible 
factor 1 (HIF-1) plays a critical role in metastasis of BC cells to the brain. 
Hypoxia stimulated BC cell migration and invasion ex vivo and brain colonization 
in vivo. Knockdown of either HIF-1α or ITGB3 expression impaired brain 
colonization by human or mouse BC cells injected into the cardiac left 
ventricle. Exposure of BC cells to hypoxia increased expression of ITGB3 and its 
incorporation into small extracellular vesicles (EVs). EVs harvested from the 
conditioned medium of hypoxic BC cells showed increased retention in the brain 
after intracardiac injection that was HIF-1α and ITGB3 dependent. EVs from 
hypoxic BC cells showed binding to brain endothelial cells (ECs), leading to 
increased EC-BC cell interaction, increased vascular endothelial growth factor 
receptor 2 signaling, increased EC permeability, and increased transendothelial 
migration of BC cells. Taken together, our studies implicate HIF-1-stimulated 
production of ITGB3+ EVs as a key mechanism by which hypoxia promotes BC brain 
metastasis.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI190470
PMID: 40662366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Org Biomol Chem. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1039/d5ob00501a. Online ahead of
print.

Design of pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine-endoperoxide hybrids as first-in-class dual 
degraders of cyclin D1/3 and CDK4/6 with potent antiproliferative effects.

Cui Z(1), Yang Y(1), Wang C(1), Zhu J(1), Jiao H(1), Wang L(2), Zhang S(1)(3), 
He H(1)(3), Zhong H(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences/Guizhou Engineering Laboratory for 
Synthetic Drugs, Guizhou University, Guiyang, China.
(2)Chemical Engineering Center, Guizhou University, Guiyang, China.
(3)Guizhou Provincial Key Laboratory of Innovation and Manufacturing for 
Pharmaceuticals, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, China.

The hyperactive Cyclin D-CDK4/6 heterodimer is a key cell cycle regulator in 
breast cancer, and CDK4/6 inhibitors featuring pyridine/pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine 
scaffolds are clinically used treatments. In addition, numerous studies have 
reported the antitumor activity of endoperoxide compounds. In this study, we 
designed and synthesized a series of novel 
endoperoxide-pyridine/pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine derivatives. ADMET predictions 
indicate that the C log P values (ranging from 2 to 4) for all target compounds 
satisfy drug-likeness criteria, implying favorable solubility and membrane 
permeability. All synthesized compounds exhibited antiproliferative activities 
that were either superior to or comparable with the positive control drugs, 
Palbociclib and Ribociclib. Notably, compound E2 demonstrated enhanced 
antiproliferative effects in MCF-7 and T47D cell lines (IC50 = 2.16 ± 0.28 
μM/0.42 ± 0.03 μM) compared to Palbociclib (IC50 = 4.13 ± 0.13 μM/10.66 ± 1.63 
μM), without exhibiting significant toxicity in normal breast cells MCF-10A. 
Kinase inhibition assays demonstrated that E2 exhibits an inhibitory activity 
against CDK6/Cyclin D3 (IC50 = 6.1 nM), which is more than twice as potent as 
that of Palbociclib (IC50 = 12.9 nM). Mechanistic studies revealed that, unlike 
traditional CDK4/6 inhibitors, compound E2 facilitates the targeted degradation 
of Cyclin D1/3 and CDK4/6 through the Ubiquitin-Proteasome System pathway.

DOI: 10.1039/d5ob00501a
PMID: 40662345