1. Recent Adv Inflamm Allergy Drug Discov. 2025;19(2):213-220. doi: 
10.2174/0127722708307900240818172700.

Cup as a Cap on the Diabetic Wound: A Hope for Treatment of Diabetic Ulcers.

Rajaei M(1), Zare-Zardini H(1), Eslami H(1), Ansari M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Meybod University, Meybod, Iran.

Diabetes is known as one of the most important widespread diseases in the world. 
Diabetic ulcer is one of the main complications associated with this disease. 
The use of the capabilities of modern science such as nanotechnology can be 
effective in developing new strategies for treating diabetic ulcers. Regulating 
homeostasis, controlling infections, and the ability to regenerate/ heal are 
some of the proposed mechanisms of nanomaterials in wound healing. In this 
regard, cuprorivaite bioceramic, as a bioceramic containing copper nanoparticles 
with effects on angiogenic factors and infection control, can effectively be 
used in the healing of diabetic ulcers. In this prospective article, we have 
presented the potential of this bioceramic in the design of new dressings for 
diabetic wound healing.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0127722708307900240818172700
PMID: 40667595


2. Recent Adv Inflamm Allergy Drug Discov. 2025;19(2):135-145. doi: 
10.2174/0127722708314530240919054410.

A Comprehensive Review of Acanthosis Nigricans: Pathogenesis, Clinical 
manifestation and Management.

Shiana(1), Parmar S(1), Guleria P(1), Jindal S(1), Ashawat MS(1), Kumar P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Laureate Institute of Pharmacy, Kathog 
Jawalamukhi, Distt Kangra, Himachal Pradesh, 176031, India.

INTRODUCTION: Acanthosis Nigricans is a dermatological condition characterized 
by hyperpigmented velvet plaques that can be observed in flexural areas such as 
the neck, axilla, and groin. AN is frequently associated with insulin resistance 
and obesity, however, it can also appear in non-obese people and as a 
paraneoplastic disease. Its prevalence varies across different populations, with 
higher rates observed in individuals with obesity, diabetes, and certain genetic 
syndromes. Classification of AN can be based on underlying etiology, 
distinguishing primary and secondary forms. Pathogenesis is the complex 
interplay of genetic, hormonal, and environmental factors, with insulin 
resistance playing a central role. Diagnosis relies on clinical evaluation of 
characteristics of skin changes, often requiring further investigation for 
underlying systemic disease. Topical therapies involve keratolytic agents, 
retinoids, and alpha hydroxyl acids to improve the cosmesis and reduce the 
plaque's thickness. Treatment strategies address underlying conditions by 
emphasizing lifestyle modifications and in some cases, pharmacological 
interventions.
OBJECTIVE: This review aims to comprehensively examine the pathogenesis, 
clinical manifestation, and management of acanthosis nigricans.
DISCUSSION: AN is closely linked to insulin resistance, characterized by 
impaired cellular response to insulin, leading to compensatory hyperinsulinemia. 
Recognizing AN's clinical presentation is paramount for early diagnosis and 
appropriate management.
CONCLUSION: Acanthosis Nigricans is a skin condition characterized by dark, 
thickened patches of skin, typically occurring in skin folds and creases. It can 
be a sign of an underlying health issue such as insulin resistance, obesity, 
hormonal disorders, or certain medications. Proper diagnosis and management of 
the underlying conditions are crucial. Treatment may involve addressing the 
underlying causes, lifestyle changes, and topical medications to improve the 
appearance of the skin. Regular monitoring and follow-up with a health care 
professional are essential for optimal management and to prevent complications.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0127722708314530240919054410
PMID: 40667590


3. Am J Cancer Res. 2025 Jun 15;15(6):2682-2700. doi: 10.62347/EAMR9595. 
eCollection 2025.

Intraosseous versus intravenous fluid resuscitation in gastrointestinal 
tumor-related acute hemorrhage: impact on 30-day mortality and lactate 
clearance.

Chen J(1), Zhang C(2), He X(1), Han X(3), Su Y(4), Chen C(1), Xu W(1), Yang 
W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, The People's Hospital of Rugao Rugao 
226500, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The People's Hospital of Rugao Rugao 226500, 
Jiangsu, China.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, PLA Eastern Theater General Hospital 
Nanjing 210000, Jiangsu, China.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital Group Suqian 
Hospital Suqian 223800, Jiangsu, China.

This retrospective study evaluated the impact of intraosseous infusion (IO) 
versus traditional intravenous infusion (IV) on 30-day mortality and clinical 
outcomes in 518 patients with acute gastrointestinal bleeding (AGIB) secondary 
to gastrointestinal tumors from January 2022 to July 2024. Patients were divided 
into IO (n=217) and IV (n=301) groups based on initial resuscitation strategy. 
Compared to IV group, the IO group demonstrated higher first-attempt 
catheterization success rate, shorter vascular access time, and faster blood 
pressure recovery (all P<0.001), alongside higher 6-hour lactate (LA) clearance 
(34% vs. 22%, P<0.001) and lower 30-day mortality (11.98% vs. 18.6%, P=0.016). 
Multivariate analysis identified IO infusion as protective factor for lactate 
metabolism (HR=0.289, 95% CI: 0.092-0.864), while advanced age (HR=1.125), 
diabetes (HR=3.23), and low LA clearance (HR=0.016) were independent risk factor 
for mortality. Causal mediation analysis revealed that 6-hour LA clearance 
mediated 68% of the IO-associated mortality reduction (P<0.001), whereas 
diabetes history was not a significant mediator (P=0.156). Complication rates 
were comparable between groups (P>0.05). These findings indicate that IO 
infusion improves survival in AGIB due to gastrointestinal tumors by rapidly 
restoring hemodynamics and enhancing lactate metabolism. The mortality benefit 
is primarily driven by accelerated LA clearance rather than comorbidities like 
diabetes. Given its safety profile comparable to IV, IO infusion should be 
prioritized in critical care settings.

AJCR Copyright © 2025.

DOI: 10.62347/EAMR9595
PMCID: PMC12256426
PMID: 40667536

Conflict of interest statement: None.


4. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1646006. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1646006. 
eCollection 2025.

Correction: Mechanism underlying the involvement of CXCR4/CXCL12 in diabetic 
wound healing and prospects for responsive hydrogel-loaded CXCR4 formulations.

Wang L(1)(2), Nie F(3), Lu Z(3), Chong Y(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Nutrition, The Affiliated Hospital of Yangzhou 
University, Yangzhou University, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Institute of Translational Medicine, Medical College, Yangzhou University, 
Yangzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, The Affiliated Hospital of Yangzhou 
University, Yangzhou University, Jiangsu, China.

Erratum for
    Front Pharmacol. 2025 Apr 16;16:1561112. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1561112.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1561112.].

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Nie, Lu and Chong.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1646006
PMCID: PMC12260242
PMID: 40667499


5. Front Nutr. 2025 Jul 1;12:1624173. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2025.1624173. eCollection
 2025.

Inverse association between dietary fiber intake and gallstone disease in U.S. 
adults: a cross-sectional study from the NHANES database.

Zuo D(1)(2), Sang M(1), Sun X(1), Chen G(3), Ji K(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Translational Medicine, Hubei Key Laboratory of Wudang 
Local Chinese Medicine Research, Hubei Provincial Clinical Research Center for 
Parkinson's Disease at Xiangyang No.1 People's Hospital, Hubei University of 
Medicine, Xiangyang, China.
(2)College of Biomedicine and Health, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, 
Hubei, China.
(3)Department of Clinical Medical Research, Binhai County People's Hospital, 
Clinical Medical College of Yangzhou University, Yancheng, Jiangsu, China.

BACKGROUND: The cross-sectional association of dietary fiber intake with 
gallstone disease in United States adults remains to be comprehensively 
elucidated.
METHODS: We used the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 
data from 2017-2023. The assessment of dietary fiber intake was derived from 
24-h dietary recalls. Stratified analyses were then used to demonstrate dietary 
fiber intake corresponding to different groups of gallstone and non-gallstone 
conditions. The use of weighted logistic regression was employed to explore the 
correlation between dietary fiber intake and gallstone disease. Subgroup and 
interaction analyses were used to identify potential interacting factors. 
Additionally, restricted cubic spline was used to assess the dose-response 
between dietary fiber and gallstone risk.
RESULTS: The study population comprised 9,273 patients, with a gallstone 
prevalence of 10.47% (971 cases). In the context of various subgroups, patients 
diagnosed with gallstones exhibited a reduced dietary fiber intake in comparison 
with individuals not bearing gallstones. In the fully adjusted model, an inverse 
association was observed between dietary fiber intake and gallstone disease 
(odds ratio (OR), 95% confidence interval (CI); 0.98 (0.96,1.00), p 
value = 0.039). The highest quartile of dietary fiber intake exhibited a lower 
risk of gallstone disease in comparison with the lowest quartile (quartile 4 vs. 
quartile 1: 0.65 (0.45, 0.94), p value = 0.022). The inverse correlation between 
dietary fiber intake and the prevalence of gallstones was found to be 
statistically significant in several subgroups, including males, Hispanic 
individuals, those with less than a high school education, alcohol consumers, 
and individuals diagnosed with diabetes. Furthermore, the analysis of 
dose-response curves indicated a nearly linear correlation between dietary fiber 
intake and the risk of gallstone development.
CONCLUSION: Dietary fiber intake is inversely associated with gallstone disease 
in United States adults. Adequate dietary fiber intake may be beneficial in 
reducing gallstone prevalence.

Copyright © 2025 Zuo, Sang, Sun, Chen and Ji.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2025.1624173
PMCID: PMC12259441
PMID: 40667433

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


6. Open Forum Infect Dis. 2025 Jul 2;12(7):ofaf369. doi: 10.1093/ofid/ofaf369. 
eCollection 2025 Jul.

Prevalence and Risk Factors of Liver Fibrosis Among People With HIV and 
Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Steatotic Liver Disease.

Xu W(1), Liu D(1), Zhang R(1), Chen J(1), Shen Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infection and Immunity, Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: We aimed to investigate the prevalence of liver fibrosis and 
identify the associated risk factors among people with HIV (PWH) and metabolic 
dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD).
METHODS: Abdominal ultrasonography and transient elastography were performed to 
assess liver fibrosis and steatosis. Lean MASLD was defined as MASLD occurring 
in PWH with a body mass index (BMI) < 24 kg/m2. A cutoff of liver stiffness 
measurement ≥ 7.1 kPa was set for significant liver fibrosis. The prevalence, 
correlation factors, and risk factors were evaluated.
RESULTS: Among 361 PWH, 250 (69.25%) had a BMI < 24 kg/m2, and 141 (39.06%) were 
diagnosed with MASLD. The 141 PWH with MASLD were classified as 2 groups based 
on BMI: 58 (41.13%) as lean MASLD and 83 (58.87%) as overweight MASLD. 
Significant fibrosis was observed in 121 of the 361 PWH, including 75 of the 141 
with MASLD, 28 of the 58 with lean MASLD, and 47 of the 83 with overweight 
MASLD. Among PWH with MASLD, independent risk factors for significant liver 
fibrosis included higher alanine aminotransferase levels and the presence of 
type 2 diabetes. Among PWH with lean MASLD, independent risk factors for 
significant liver fibrosis included elevated aspartate aminotransferase levels 
and the administration of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant liver fibrosis is highly prevalent among PWH and MASLD. 
Multiple risk factors are associated with significant liver fibrosis among PWH. 
These findings underscore the importance of early identification and management 
of liver fibrosis in PWH.
CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRATION: NCT04215926.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/ofid/ofaf369
PMCID: PMC12260378
PMID: 40667432

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest. All authors: No 
reported conflicts. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of 
Potential Conflicts of Interest.


7. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 10:2025.06.23.661117. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.661117.

Differences in immune cell profiles around the time of islet autoimmunity 
seroconversion in children with and without type 1 diabetes.

Hohsfield KR, Carry PM, Slack SD, Repaci CT, Vanderlinden LA, Kechris K, Rewers 
M, Norris JM, Johnson RK.

Seroconversion (SV) marks the initiation of islet autoimmunity (IA) and 
pre-clinical phase of type 1 diabetes, yet the contributions of immune cells 
beyond cytotoxic T cells remain unclear. We applied high-resolution immune 
cell-type deconvolution using peripheral blood DNA methylation data from nested 
case-control samples of the Diabetes Autoimmunity Study in the Young (DAISY; 
n=151) and The Environmental Determinants of Diabetes in the Young (TEDDY; 
n=166) to estimate immune cell proportions across pre-SV and SV timepoints and 
construct functional ratios, such as the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR). 
Using linear models, we evaluated differences between type 1 diabetes cases and 
controls at pre-SV, SV, and the change across timepoints. Pre-SV, cases had 
higher NLR and lower CD4T/CD8T cell ratios. At SV, the combined B-CD4T-CD8T 
memory/naïve ratio was reduced in cases. From pre-SV to SV, cases showed 
attenuations in NLR, B-memory/naïve, and B-CD4T-CD8T memory/naïve ratios. These 
patterns may reflect delayed or disrupted immune maturation with the persistence 
or expansion of naïve cells or impaired transition to memory subsets following 
antigen exposure. Our findings highlight early shifts in innate and adaptive 
immune cell dynamics during type 1 diabetes pathogenesis and support immune cell 
ratios as potential biomarkers for risk stratification and mechanistic insight.
ARTICLE HIGHLIGHTS: We sought to examine immune cells around the time of IA 
seroconversion in children at higher risk for type 1 diabetes.We wanted to 
answer whether immune cell ratio differences exist between type 1 diabetes cases 
and controls around IA at pre-SV, SV, and the change pre-SV to SV.We found 
immune cell ratio differences between type 1 diabetes cases and controls before, 
during, and across SV timepoints, suggesting potential etiological and 
pathophysiological roles.Our findings highlight the complexity of immunodynamics 
around IA seroconversion and potential role for immune cell ratios in type 1 
diabetes risk stratification and intervention.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.661117
PMCID: PMC12262678
PMID: 40667383


8. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 25:2025.06.24.661373. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.24.661373.

Spatial transcriptomic profiling of human paravertebral sympathetic chain 
ganglia reveals diabetes-induced neuroplasticity.

Moreno MM, Patel PJ, Goss K, Mian SM, Nakisli S, Inturi N, Shiers SI, Horton P, 
Cervantes A, Funk G, Khan T, Vines E, Klein RM, Henze DA, Tavares-Ferreira D, 
Price TJ, Yousuf MS.

The paravertebral sympathetic chain ganglia (SCG) are autonomic ganglia critical 
for regulating the "fight-or-flight" response. Symptoms of sympathetic 
dysfunction are prevalent in diabetes, affecting up to 90% of patients. The 
molecular and cellular composition of the human SCG and its alteration in 
diabetes remains poorly defined. To address this gap, we performed spatial 
transcriptomic profiling of lumbar SCGs from diabetic and non-diabetic organ 
donors. We identified 3 three distinct neuronal populations, two noradrenergic 
(NA1 and NA2) and one cholinergic (CHO), based on tyrosine hydroxylase ( TH ) 
and SLC18A3 expression, respectively. We also characterized 9 non-neuronal 
populations consisting of Schwann cells, immune cells, fibroblasts, adipocytes, 
and endothelial cells. In diabetic SCGs, we observed a significant loss of 
myelinating Schwann cells and a phenotypic shift of cholinergic neurons toward a 
noradrenergic identity. Additionally, diabetes was associated with a significant 
reduction in the transcripts of vasodilatory neuropeptides, such as VIP and 
CALCA , suggesting a mechanism for impaired vascular control. Upstream regulator 
analysis highlighted altered neurotrophic signaling in diabetes, with enhanced 
NGF/TRKA and diminished BDNF/TRKB activity, potentially driven by target-derived 
cues. Comparison between SCG and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons revealed 
ganglia-specific genes, like SCN3A and NPY (SCG) versus SCN10A and GPX1 (DRG), 
offering specific therapeutic targets for autonomic dysfunction or pain. Our 
findings provide a transcriptomic characterization of human SCG, revealing 
molecular signatures that underlie diabetic autonomic dysfunction. This work 
lays a foundation for the development of therapies to restore sympathetic 
function and avoid unintended autonomic effects in the development of 
analgesics.
SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Autonomic dysfunction affects up to 90% of people with 
diabetes, yet the human sympathetic nervous system remains poorly molecularly 
defined. To address this gap, we present a spatial transcriptomic profile of the 
human sympathetic chain ganglia (SCG), revealing how diabetes affects the human 
autonomic nervous system. We show that diabetes shifts the cholinergic neuronal 
population to a noradrenergic phenotype and reduces vasodilation neuropeptide 
expression, potentially explaining impaired vascular control and 
thermoregulation. Comparative analysis of sympathetic and sensory ganglia 
reveals distinct gene profiles that may inform novel therapeutic strategies. 
These findings offer critical insight into the molecular drivers of diabetic 
autonomic neuropathy and lay the groundwork for safer, more precise treatments 
that selectively modulate autonomic or sensory function in chronic disease.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.24.661373
PMCID: PMC12262271
PMID: 40667173


9. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 27:2025.06.25.661601. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.25.661601.

Stressed β-cells contribute to loss of peri-islet extracellular matrix in type 1 
diabetes.

Johansen CG, Lam K, Farnsworth NL.

Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is characterized by the immune-mediated destruction of 
insulin-producing β-cells in pancreatic islets. The peri-islet extracellular 
matrix (ECM) is a complex protein barrier that is lost in T1D, in part due to 
infiltrating immune cells. The contribution of stressed β-cells to ECM 
degradation during T1D remains unclear. To bridge this gap, we used 
12-15-week-old NOD mice and pancreas sections from healthy, ≥2 autoantibody 
positive (Aab+), and recent onset T1D donors. We focused on MMP-3 due to its 
role in degrading type IV collagen (COL IV) in the peri-islet ECM. Treatment 
with proinflammatory cytokines or hyperglycemia increased MMP-3 gene expression 
and protein levels in mouse and human islets. In NOD pancreas sections, 
increased MMP-3 expression in β-cells correlates with loss of COL IV during 
insulitis and hyperglycemia; however, this was independent of insulitis score. 
We observed similar increases in MMP-3 and loss of COL IV in islets and exocrine 
tissue from Aab+ and recent onset T1D donors. These results suggest that 
stressed β-cells degrade the ECM during preclinical T1D, further weakening the 
peri-islet ECM barrier and facilitating islet infiltration and death. Inhibiting 
expression of MMP-3 may represent a novel treatment to prevent islet death in 
T1D.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.25.661601
PMCID: PMC12262395
PMID: 40667128


10. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 17:2025.06.16.659956. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.16.659956.

The Chromatin Remodeler Protein CHD4 Cooperates With NKX2.2 to Regulate 
Pancreatic Beta Cell Integrity.

Sarbaugh DK, Oliveira TG, Guney MA, Hoelscher VM, Hill CJ, Michel CR, Wells KL, 
Benninger RKP, Sussel L.

NKX2.2 is a transcription factor that regulates pancreatic islet beta (β) cell 
identity and function; however, cofactor proteins that modulate the functional 
activity of NKX2.2 in β cells are relatively unexplored. An unbiased proteomics 
screen identified chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 4 (CHD4) as an 
NKX2.2 interacting partner. CHD4 is a nucleosome remodeler that directs the 
appropriate differentiation, maturation and function of many cell types by 
activating or repressing genes. To characterize the NKX2.2-dependent and 
independent roles of CHD4 in β cells, we generated Chd4 βKO mice. Deletion of 
Chd4 substantially impaired the maturation and function of β cells. The Chd4 βKO 
mice were diabetic as early as 3 weeks of age due to the disruption of islet 
integrity, impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and calcium signaling, 
and downregulation of essential β cell regulatory genes. These studies 
demonstrate that CHD4 is an essential transcriptional cofactor of NKX2.2 that is 
required for the proper maturation and function of pancreatic β cells.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.16.659956
PMCID: PMC12262308
PMID: 40667117


11. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 28:2025.06.26.661773. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.26.661773.

Improved conditioning for hematopoietic chimerism induces islet tolerance to 
cure diabetes.

Ramos SA, Bhagchandani P, Burgos DM, Gu X, Rodriguez R, Nourin N, Neukam M, 
Pathak S, Shizuru JA, Kim SK.

Mixed hematopoietic chimerism after hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) can 
modulate the immune system and induce tolerance to allogeneic tissues. However, 
bone marrow conditioning-related toxicities preclude wider adoption of HCT for 
transplant allotolerance. We sought agents that reduced conditioning intensity, 
while promoting durable mixed chimerism after HCT across complete major 
histocompatibility complex (MHC) mismatch in diabetic mice, permitting islet 
allotransplantation and diabetes reversal. We systematically tested baricitinib 
(JAK1/2 inhibitor), venetoclax (Bcl2 inhibitor), and αCD47 antibody, agents in 
current clinical use, and quantified hematopoietic chimerism after HCT. Combined 
with αCD117 antibody, transient T cell depletion, and just 10 centigray (cGy) 
total body irradiation (TBI), these agents enabled durable mixed chimerism and 
matching allo-islet tolerance, to cure diabetes without evidence of GVHD. Thus, 
we have developed a conditioning regimen to promote allogeneic mixed 
hematopoietic chimerism and transplanted islet allotolerance that minimizes 
conditioning radiation and cures diabetes, a significant achievement.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.26.661773
PMCID: PMC12262420
PMID: 40667077


12. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 23:2025.06.17.660196. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.17.660196.

Med14 phosphorylation shapes genomic response to GLP-1 Agonist.

Van de Velde S, Yu J, Evensen KG, Pakhlevanyan E, Williams AE, Shaw RJ, Montminy 
M.

Under feeding conditions, release of glucagon-like peptide (GLP-1) from 
intestinal L cells promotes insulin secretion and pancreatic beta cell 
viability. Binding of GLP-1 to its cognate receptor on the beta cell surface 
results in induction of the cAMP signaling pathway, leading to the protein 
kinase A (PKA) mediated phosphorylation of CREB and induction of CREB target 
genes. By contrast with the acute effects of this pathway on immediate early 
CREB target genes, which attenuate the cAMP-CREB response, sustained exposure of 
beta cells to the stable GLP-1 receptor agonist Exendin-4 stimulates the 
expression of beta cell specific CREB target genes with delayed kinetics. In a 
proteomic screen for transcriptional co-regulators that mediate the long-term 
effects of GLP-1 analogs, we identified Med14, a backbone subunit of the 
Mediator complex. Exposure to Exendin-4 stimulates Med14 phosphorylation at 
Ser983, corresponding to a conserved PKA recognition site (RRXS) that is located 
within an intrinsically disordered region of Med14. Phosphorylation of Med14 by 
PKA is essential for maintenance of enhancers that drive induction of beta 
cell-specific and diabetes-linked genes. Mutation of Med14 at Ser983 to alanine 
decreased beta cell numbers and repressed Exendin-4 induced gene regulation in 
primary mouse beta cells. Our work reveals how phosphorylation of a general 
transcription factor in response to GLP-1 analogs triggers a broad genomic 
response with salutary effects on beta cell function.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.17.660196
PMCID: PMC12262311
PMID: 40667025


13. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 27:2025.06.26.661362. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.26.661362.

Long-read transcriptome assembly reveals vast isoform diversity in the placenta 
associated with metabolic and endocrine function.

Bresnahan ST, Yong H, Wu WH, Lopez S, Yen Chan JK, White F, Jacques PÉ, Hivert 
MF, Chan SY, Love MI, Huang JY, Bhattacharya A.

The placenta plays a critical role in fetal development and mediates maternal 
metabolic effects on offspring health outcomes. Despite its importance, the 
placenta remains understudied in large-scale genomic initiatives, with most 
analyses focusing on gene-level expression based on annotations from adult 
tissue references that obscure isoform diversity particularly vital to 
understanding function in developmental tissues. Here, we employed 
largest-in-class long-read RNA sequencing (N = 72) to generate a comprehensive 
placental transcript reference, yielding 37,661 high-confidence isoforms across 
12,302 genes. Our assembly revealed 14,985 novel isoforms of known genes and 
2,759 transcripts representing previously unannotated genes, with extensive 
diversity in genes involved in obesity, placental lactogen production, and 
growth control. We demonstrate this approach has two immediate practical 
advantages: First, the improved reference reduced inferential uncertainty in 
isoform quantification by approximately 37%, reduced the frequency of 
low-confidence annotations and increased the yield (read depth) of 
high-confidence annotations. Second, in analyses of gestational diabetes 
mellitus (GDM) with short-read RNA-seq datasets from two independent, 
multi-ancestry birth cohorts (N = 344) as an exemplar, we were able to identify 
novel isoforms of chorionic somatomammotropin hormone 1 ( CSH1 ) mediating the 
effect of maternal hyperglycemia on birth weight that was not apparent in 
conventional gene-level analyses. These findings demonstrate that isoform-level 
annotation of placental transcriptomics provides greater sensitivity and 
specificity than gene-level approaches. This enhanced precision may be essential 
for understanding placental function in developmental programming of metabolism 
and reveal ancestry- and context-specific variation in placental function and 
responses to environmental exposures.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.26.661362
PMCID: PMC12262625
PMID: 40666916


14. Food Sci Nutr. 2025 Jul 14;13(7):e70527. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.70527. eCollection
 2025 Jul.

Exploring the Chemical Profile, Antioxidants, and Anti-Diabetic Properties of 
Coffee Beans From Selected East African Countries: A Comparative In Vitro and 
Computational Study.

Mohamed AI(1), Erukainure OL(1)(2), Ismail H(1), Islam MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Life Sciences University of 
KwaZulu-Natal Durban South Africa.
(2)Department of Microbiology, School of Life Sciences University of 
KwaZulu-Natal Durban South Africa.

East Africa, the origin of coffee beans, is renowned for its coffee's cultural 
significance and potential health benefits, particularly in mitigating metabolic 
disorders and their related complications. Despite this, studies that 
comprehensively evaluate their pharmacological potential remain limited. This 
study investigated the antioxidant and antidiabetic properties of coffee beans 
from Uganda, Burundi, and Tanzania using in vitro and computational methods. 
Antioxidant activities were evaluated via DPPH, FRAP, and nitric oxide 
(NO) assays, while antidiabetic potential was assessed using α-glucosidase and 
α-amylase inhibitiory assays. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) 
was employed to screen and identify the phytochemical compounds in the coffee 
beans. Additionally, computational studies such as molecular docking and 
molecular dynamics (MD) simulation were performed to investigate the 
interactions and stability between the phytochemicals and target enzymes. The 
results revealed that coffee beans from Burundi exhibited the highest DPPH and 
FRAP scavenging activities, while Ugandan cofee beans demonstrated the strongest 
NO scavenging activity. Tanzanian beans showed the most potent inhibition of 
α-glucosidase and α-amylase enzymes. Additionally, Burundian coffee extracts 
stimulated glucose uptake in yeast cells more effectively than other samples. 
The LC-MS analysis highlighted that Burundian and Tanzanian beans were rich in 
phenolic acids, whereas Ugandan beans had the highest caffeine content. 
Molecular docking and dynamics simulations confirmed strong inhibitory 
interactions between the identified phytochemicals and target enzymes, 
supporting their role in antioxidant and antidiabetic activities. The study 
underscores East African coffee beans' potent antioxidant and antidiabetic 
properties, attributed to their unique phytochemical profiles. These findings 
emphasize their potential as functional foods for managing metabolic disorders, 
providing a scientific basis for their health benefits.

© 2025 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.70527
PMCID: PMC12259390
PMID: 40666827

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


15. Food Sci Nutr. 2025 Jul 15;13(7):e70404. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.70404. eCollection
 2025 Jul.

A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of the Impact of Cornus mas L. on 
Anthropometric Indices and Body Composition.

Ghalichi F(1), Molani-Gol R(2), Ehsani N(3), Khajebishak Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Medicinal Plants Research Center, Department of Nutrition Maragheh University 
of Medical Sciences (MRGUMS) Maragheh Iran.
(2)Student Research Committee, Faculty of Nutrition and Food Sciences Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences Tabriz Iran.
(3)Student Research Committee, Department of Nutrition Maragheh University of 
Medical Sciences (MRGUMS) Maragheh Iran.

Obesity and its related metabolic disorders have been a global concern in health 
care over the past few decades. Lifestyle modification and evidence-based 
dietary interventions, including the usage of nutraceuticals with minimal 
adverse effects, have gained widespread recognition as effective strategies for 
obesity management. Cornelian cherry, scientifically identified as Cornus mas L. 
(CM) is rich in anthocyanins, flavonoids, tannins, and polyphenols, with 
anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, anti-diabetic, anti-obesity, and hypolipidemic 
properties. Cornelian cherry inhibits hepatic lipogenesis, increases hepatic 
lipid oxidation and clearance, and regulates the expression of peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptors. Additionally, CM activates the AMP-activated 
protein kinase and adiponectin signaling pathways in the white adipose tissue, 
resulting in adipocytokine level decline. We aimed to perform a systematic 
review and meta-analysis of the impact of CM on anthropometric indices and body 
composition. A comprehensive search was conducted on the Web of Sciences, 
PubMed, and Scopus databases up to April 2025 for published papers. The quality 
of methodology and risk of bias of selected studies were assessed by the 
Cochrane Risk of Bias tool. Overall, six randomized controlled trials (RCT) were 
included. Pooled analyses indicated no significant differences observed in cases 
of body weight (BW), body fat percentage (BF%), fat mass (FM), weight 
circumference (WC) and hip circumference (HC). However, a modest but significant 
increase in body mass index (BMI) was observed after supplementing CM. 
Furthermore, according to sub-group analyses, BW, BMI, BF%, FM, WC, and HC were 
significantly increased when administration was accomplished on MAPLD patients, 
the sample size was > 50, the lyophilized dried and CM fruit extract forms were 
used, intervention duration was < 12 weeks, and doses were ≥ 30 g. Future 
research should prioritize well-designed, long-term follow-up RCTs investigating 
CM as an adjunct therapy to multimodal lifestyle interventions, focusing on both 
anthropometric indices and biochemical markers.

© 2025 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.70404
PMCID: PMC12261034
PMID: 40666824

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


16. Front Microbiol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1575081. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2025.1575081. 
eCollection 2025.

Skin microbiota and diabetic foot ulcers.

Lou J(1), Xiang Z(2), Zhu X(3), Li J(1), Jin G(1), Cui S(1), Huang N(1), Le 
X(1), Fan Y(1), Sun Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Burn Department, Ningbo No.2 Hospital, Ningbo, China.
(2)Institute of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Bonn, Bonn, 
Germany.
(3)Health Science Center, Ningbo University, Ningbo, China.

Skin microbiota is the microbial population on the skin surface, which has a 
symbiotic relationship with the host skin and plays an important role in 
maintaining skin health and regulating immune responses. In patients with 
diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs), the skin microbiota is unbalanced. The abundance of 
pathogenic bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
increases, forming biofilms, destroying the skin barrier function, aggravating 
infection, and leading to poor wound healing. Studies have shown that the 
diversity of skin microbiota is positively correlated with the severity of 
ulcers, and regulating its composition and function may be an important strategy 
to improve DFUs healing. In recent years, with the development of molecular 
biology technology, progress has been made in the study of skin microbiota, such 
as 16S rRNA gene sequencing technology to understand its composition changes and 
explore the interaction mechanism with the host immune system. Based on this, 
some new therapeutic approaches are being explored, such as the use of 
probiotics or antibacterial drugs to modulate the composition of the microbiota 
and the development of microbiota-based personalized treatment regimens. 
However, there are still challenges in current research. For example, the 
composition and function of skin microbiota are affected by many factors, and 
there are relatively few studies on other microorganisms such as fungi and 
viruses. In the future, it is necessary to further explore its diversity and the 
interaction mechanism with the host, and develop more effective treatment 
methods to improve the prognosis of patients with DFUs.

Copyright © 2025 Lou, Xiang, Zhu, Li, Jin, Cui, Huang, Le, Fan and Sun.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2025.1575081
PMCID: PMC12261678
PMID: 40666801

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


17. Oman J Ophthalmol. 2025 Jun 24;18(2):126-132. doi: 10.4103/ojo.ojo_311_21. 
eCollection 2025 May-Aug.

Effect of Ginkgo biloba extracts in the prevention of posterior capsule 
opacification after cataract surgery: A randomized clinical trial.

Amiri AA(1), Jafari R(2), Amiri AA(1), Rad HA(3), Daneshvar F(4), Charati JY(5), 
Amiri AA(6).

Author information:
(1)Sports Medicine Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences and ExpectAid Inc., ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Bu Ali Sina Hospital, Mazandaran University of 
Medical Sciences, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mazandaran University of 
Medical Sciences, ON, Canada.
(4)Behavioral Diseases Counseling Center, Mazandaran University of Medical 
Sciences, ON, Canada.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, Health Sciences Research Center, Addiction 
Institute, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, ON, Canada.
(6)Diabetes Research Center, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences and 
ExpectAid Inc., ON, Canada.

PURPOSE: This study aims to explore the effect of Ginkgo biloba extracts (GbE) 
on the prevention of posterior capsule opacification (PCO).
STUDY DESIGN: This study was a double-blinded, placebo-controlled, single-center 
randomized clinical trial.
METHODS: Patients with senile cataracts randomly received GbE supplement 
capsules at a dose of 200 mg (n = 74) or an identical placebo (n = 70) daily for 
6 months after cataract surgery. Patients' follow-ups were scheduled for up to 3 
years after cataract surgery. PCO formation (Pearl/Fibrotic) was graded using 
slit-lamp examinations. The necessity of a Neodymium-doped yttrium aluminum 
garnet (Nd: YAG) laser capsulotomy was evaluated by patients' complaints of 
reduced visual acuity imputable to PCO.
RESULTS: A total of 144 patients with a mean age of 64.92 ± 7.77 years were 
studied. The mean Log MAR visual acuity in the placebo group started to decrease 
at 12 months (P = 0.003) and remained significantly lower than the GbE group 
throughout 36 months (P = 0.005). At 1-year postsurgery, a significant 
difference between the two groups of GbE and Placebo was observed regarding 
pearl PCO score, but obvious fibrotic PCO score differences occurred 3 years 
after surgery. The Nd: YAG capsulotomy was performed in six eyes (6.1%) for the 
GbE group and 18 eyes (20.4%) for the placebo group (P = 0.004) 3 years after 
the cataract surgery.
CONCLUSION: Six months of supplementation with GbE was well tolerated and may 
provide some marginal prevention in the PCO formation. Besides the effect of the 
GbE in the inhibition of PCO, we also observed a noticeable reduction in the 
need for Nd: YAG laser capsulotomy.

Copyright: © 2025 Oman Ophthalmic Society.

DOI: 10.4103/ojo.ojo_311_21
PMCID: PMC12258826
PMID: 40666775

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


18. Oman J Ophthalmol. 2025 Jun 24;18(2):182-186. doi: 10.4103/ojo.ojo_364_24. 
eCollection 2025 May-Aug.

A comparative study of retinal vein occlusion and serum 25 hydroxy Vitamin D at 
a tertiary care centre.

Bhattacharya A(1), Majumdar S(1), Ray MS(2), Nandi D(1), Ghosh S(1), Banerjee 
D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, 
Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, 
Kolkata, West Bengal, India.

BACKGROUND: Prevalence of retinal vascular occlusion is second to diabetic 
retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration. Various age-related local and 
systemic factors have been associated with retinal vein occlusion (RVO). 
Hemodynamic changes (venous stasis), degenerative changes of the vessel wall and 
blood hypercoagulability underlies the pathogenesis. The role of Vitamin D in 
modulating the inflammatory responses within the arterial wall, the capacity to 
attenuate the oxidative stress and direct effect of hypovitaminosis D on 
increased vascular resistance hints at a potential association of Vitamin D 
levels with disorders of retinal vasculature.
AIM: To estimate serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25 OH Vit D) level in patients of 
RVO and compare it with matched controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty patients of RVO as cases and 50 without RVO as 
controls underwent systemic and ocular examination including the estimation of 
serum 25 OH Vit D and other biochemical parameters.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) 
software version 25 was used for the analysis. An alpha level of 5% was taken, 
that is P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
RESULTS: Mean serum 25 OH Vit D level in cases of RVO was 21.82 
nanogram/deciliters (ng/dL) compared to 30.71 ng/dL in the control group which 
was significantly lower in cases compared to control (P < 0.001). The odds ratio 
calculated for RVO cases versus controls was 1.137; 95% confidence interval 
(1.074-1.203).
CONCLUSION: A positive association of low serum 25 OH Vit D levels and RVO was 
found highlighting the importance of evaluating serum Vitamin D levels in all 
the cases of RVO. This correlation may have possible implications for 
prophylaxis and treatment of RVO, even though this part of our country gets 
abundant sunlight throughout the year.

Copyright: © 2025 Oman Ophthalmic Society.

DOI: 10.4103/ojo.ojo_364_24
PMCID: PMC12258840
PMID: 40666756

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


19. Int J Gen Med. 2025 Jul 11;18:3837-3849. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S526363.
eCollection  2025.

25-(OH)D Deficiency and the Risk of Minor Amputation in Patients with Diabetes 
Foot Ulcers: A Chinese Cohort Study.

Qian Z(1), Sun Y(1), Bai J(1), Jiang B(1), Zhao J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Soochow, 215004, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Diabetic foot amputation represents the severe complication of 
patients with diabetic foot ulcers (DFU), with worsened clinical outcomes 
concomitant with 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25-(OH)D] deficiency. This study aimed to 
investigate the value of 25-(OH)D deficiency and its association with minor 
lower limb amputation in Chinese patients with DFU in type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM).
METHODS: Ninety-one T2DM patients with DFU undergoing minor amputation (surgical 
group), 94 T2DM patients without DFU (diabetic control group), and 40 healthy 
controls were enrolled in the study finally. Serum 25-(OH)D levels were measured 
by stable isotope dilution-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass 
spectrometry. Patients in the surgical group underwent pathogen detection.
RESULTS: The overall incidence of 25-(OH)D deficiency was 73.0%. Amputation 
group exhibited significantly higher prevalence versus control group (85.7% vs 
60.6%, P<0.001). The levels of serum 25-(OH)D in the minor amputation group were 
significantly lower than the T2DM group [10.71 (8.2,16.7) vs 18.8 (15.0, 23.9) 
ng/mL, P<0.001]. Compared with the control group, amputation group showed lower 
25-(OH)D, calcium, albumin and higher WBC, platelet, inflammatory markers (all 
P<0.001). Minor amputation subgroups showed that 25-(OH)D deficiency associated 
with elevated WBC (P=0.002), PLT (P=0.011), D-dimer (P=0.041), HbA1c (P=0.033), 
SII (P=0.023). While low expression of 25-(OH)D group had higher WBC (P=0.016), 
D-dimer (P=0.004), SIRI (P=0.042), lower albumin (P=0.009) vs high expression 
group. ROC analysis confirmed 25-(OH)D as superior amputation predictor 
(AUC=0.798, 95% CI 0.734-0.861) compared to inflammatory markers. Multivariate 
regression identified deficiency as independent amputation risk factor. 
Polymicrobial infections (26.4%) correlated with lower 25-(OH)D (P=0.003), with 
Gram-negative (52.4%) and Gram-positive bacteria (47.6%) among bacterial 
infections.
CONCLUSION: 25-(OH)D deficiency occurs in 85.7% of patients with minor 
amputation in DFU, and the levels of 25-(OH)D decreased. 25-(OH)D deficiency is 
a vital risk factor for minor amputation and measures should be taken to prevent 
25-(OH)D deficiency in T2DM patients with DFU.

© 2025 Qian et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJGM.S526363
PMCID: PMC12262084
PMID: 40666734

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


20. Int J Womens Health. 2025 Jul 11;17:1985-1999. doi: 10.2147/IJWH.S522635. 
eCollection 2025.

Causal Relationship Between Sex Hormone Binding Globulin and Obstetrical 
Disorders: A Two-Sample Bidirectional Mendelian Randomization Study.

Gan Y(#)(1)(2), Tan X(#)(2), Tang Y(2), Shi Q(2), Qi H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Obstetrics, The Affiliated Hospital of North Sichuan Medical 
College, Nanchong, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Obstetrical disorders critically impact maternal and fetal health. 
Sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) regulates pregnancy maintenance and 
maternal-infant outcomes through hormonal, metabolic, and inflammatory pathways, 
yet causal relationships with obstetrical disorders remain unclear. This 
Mendelian randomization (MR) study examined SHBG's causal effects on 12 
obstetrical conditions.
METHODS: Using cis-protein quantitative trait loci (cis-pQTLs) of SHBG as 
instrumental variables, we conducted MR analyses in FinnGen and UK Biobank 
(UKBB), followed by meta-analyses. Inverse variance weighting (IVW) was primary 
method, with sensitivity analyses ensuring robustness.
RESULTS: IVW-MR demonstrated reduced risks with elevated SHBG: gestational 
diabetes (OR[95%]=0.835[0.785-0.889], P FDR=2.03×10-7), hyperemesis gravidarum 
(OR[95%]=0.823[0.728-0.931], P FDR=5.94×10-3), gestational hypertension 
(OR[95%]=0.917[0.852-0.987], P FDR=0.041), and early-pregnancy hemorrhage 
(OR[95%]=0.853[0.794-0.916], P FDR=6.90×10-5). Meta-analysis confirmed SHBG's 
causal role in gestational diabetes (P_combined<0.05). COLOC revealed shared 
loci between SHBG and five disorders: gestational diabetes, hyperemesis, early 
hemorrhage, preterm delivery, and postpartum hemorrhage.
CONCLUSION: SHBG causally lowers risks of gestational diabetes, hypertension, 
hyperemesis, miscarriage, and preterm delivery, highlighting its clinical 
relevance in obstetrical pathophysiology.

© 2025 Gan et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJWH.S522635
PMCID: PMC12262094
PMID: 40666678

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


21. Aust J Psychol. 2024 Sep 15;76(1):2401022. doi:
10.1080/00049530.2024.2401022.  eCollection 2024.

Alleviation of physiological stress response by apple aroma.

Dilrukshi EAC(1), Sato S(1), Nakachi M(1), Lekamge LS(1)(2), Oiwa K(1), Ito 
K(3), Nomura S(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Engineering, Nagaoka University of Technology, Nagaoka, 
Niigata, Japan.
(2)Department of Computing and Information Systems, Faculty of Computing, 
Sabaragamuwa University of Sri Lanka, Belihul Oya, Sri Lanka.
(3)Corporate Research & Development, Takasago International Corporation, 
Hiratsuka, Kanagawa, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The study evaluated the potential of apple aroma to alleviate 
physiological stress response induced by a short-term cognitive stressor. It 
investigated the effects of apple aroma on cardiac and peripheral autonomic 
nervous system activity under stressful conditions.
METHODS: Within-subject experiments were conducted with 25 healthy male 
university students with a 30-minute calculation task under three conditions: 
Apple, Chamomile (CHA), and Di propylene glycol (DPG) (scentless air). The aroma 
administration was precisely controlled and counterbalanced. Cardiac activity on 
electrocardiograms and nose tip temperature were recorded throughout the 
experiment. A visual analog scale and a scent questionnaire were subjective 
measures.
RESULTS: Apple aroma demonstrated a significantly smaller increase in heart rate 
(t [24] = 3.36, p = 0.008 vs. DPG, t [24] = 4.06, p = 0.001 vs. CHA), and a 
decrease in the high-frequency component of heart rate variability (t 
[24] = 2.81, p = 0.029 vs. DPG, t [24] = 3.48, p = 0.006 vs. CHA) compared to 
the other conditions, representing a smaller enhancement of cardiac sympathetic 
nervous system activity and smaller suppression of cardiac parasympathetic 
nervous system activity respectively.
CONCLUSION: Apple aroma showed efficacy in alleviating the physiological stress 
response in terms of cardiac activity. Apple was also considered significantly 
preferable and comfortable compared to the other conditions, which would be 
beneficial in the context of aromatherapy.

Plain Language Summary: What is already known about this topic: Aromatherapy 
benefits: Aromatherapy, using volatile plant materials such as essential oils, 
is recognised for its potential to improve physiological and psychological 
health. Citrus fruity aromas like orange, bergamot, and yuzu have reduced stress 
and anxiety and improved mood.Apple’s health benefits: Apples are rich in 
bioactive compounds, including polyphenols, which have antioxidant properties. 
Consumption of apples is linked to reduced risks of lung cancer, cardiovascular 
diseases, and type II diabetes.Limited research on apple aroma: While there is 
extensive research on the health benefits of consuming apples, the effects of 
apple aroma on physiological and psychological health are underexplored. 
Preliminary studies suggest that apple aroma may have a relaxing effect on the 
body and mind. What this topic adds: Apple aroma reduces stress response: This 
study demonstrates that apple aroma significantly reduces the physiological 
stress response, as indicated by smaller increases in heart rate and less 
suppression of heart rate variability during a cognitive stressor.Autonomic 
nervous system modulation: The findings show that apple aroma leads to smaller 
cardiac sympathetic nervous system activity enhancements and smaller suppression 
of cardiac parasympathetic nervous system activity, suggesting a balancing 
effect on autonomic nervous system activity under stress.Preference and comfort 
in aromatherapy: Apple aroma was significantly preferable and more comfortable 
than chamomile and scentless air, indicating its potential utility in 
aromatherapy practices aimed at stress alleviation.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & 
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/00049530.2024.2401022
PMCID: PMC12218518
PMID: 40666668

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


22. Cureus. 2025 Jun 15;17(6):e86058. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86058. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

Metabolomic Analysis of Uremic Pruritus in Patients on Hemodialysis.

Mobushar JA(1)(2), Hussain SM(3), Amjad W(3), Kishore U(4)(5), Zafar AA(6), 
Qureshi MN(7)(8), Jamil MI(9), Naeem I(10), Ahmed A(11).

Author information:
(1)Medicine, Rashid Hospital, Dubai, ARE.
(2)Internal Medicine, Services Hospital Lahore, Lahore, PAK.
(3)Internal Medicine, Lahore General Hospital, Lahore, PAK.
(4)Dermatology, Combined Military Hospital, Karachi, PAK.
(5)Internal Medicine, Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, Karachi, PAK.
(6)Nephrology, Islam Medical College, Lahore, PAK.
(7)Urology Department, Benaziar Bhutto Hospital, Rawalpindi Medical University, 
Rawalpindi, PAK.
(8)Urology, Frimley Park Hospital, Camberley, GBR.
(9)Nephrology, Lahore General Hospital, Lahore, PAK.
(10)Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Lahore General Hospital, Lahore, PAK.
(11)Medicine, Lahore General Hospital, Lahore, PAK.

BACKGROUND: Uremic pruritus (UP) is a prevalent and distressing complication 
among patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) receiving maintenance 
hemodialysis (HD). Despite its significant impact on quality of life and 
mortality, the underlying pathophysiology remains incompletely understood, with 
evidence implicating metabolic and inflammatory factors.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine the prevalence of UP and assess its 
association with selected metabolic and inflammatory biomarkers in patients 
undergoing maintenance HD.
METHODS: A cross-sectional observational study was conducted at the Dialysis 
Centre of Lahore General Hospital, a tertiary care hospital in Lahore, Pakistan. 
A total of 281 adult HD patients were enrolled. Pruritus was assessed using the 
5-D Itch Scale, with a score ≥10 defining cases. Demographic and clinical data 
were recorded, and laboratory parameters including hemoglobin, calcium, 
phosphate, magnesium, intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH), uric acid, lipid 
profile, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), and white blood cell 
(WBC) count were analyzed. Associations were assessed using chi-square and 
independent samples t-tests. Multivariate logistic regression identified 
independent predictors of pruritus.
RESULTS: The prevalence of UP was 82 (29.2%). Significant differences were 
observed between pruritic and non-pruritic groups in age, dialysis duration, and 
several biochemical parameters. Independent predictors of pruritus included 
advancing age (OR = 1.148, p < 0.001), serum phosphate (OR = 2.069, p < 0.001), 
uric acid (OR = 1.680, p < 0.001), iPTH (OR = 1.007, p < 0.001), hs-CRP (OR = 
1.596, p = 0.001), magnesium (OR = 9.687, p = 0.020), triglycerides (OR = 1.018, 
p = 0.025), and HCV infection (OR = 8.098, p = 0.001). No significant 
associations were found with gender, diabetes, dialysis frequency, or vascular 
access.
CONCLUSION: UP in HD patients is significantly associated with metabolic and 
inflammatory derangements rather than demographic or dialysis-related variables. 
These findings underscore the importance of targeted metabolic control and 
inflammation modulation in managing pruritus among dialysis populations.

Copyright © 2025, Mobushar et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86058
PMCID: PMC12261998
PMID: 40666577

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Postgraduate Medical Institute/Amer-Ud-Din Medical College/Lahore General 
Hospital, Lahore issued approval 0133/06/2023. Animal subjects: All authors have 
confirmed that this study did not involve animal subjects or tissue. Conflicts 
of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors 
declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no 
financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. 
Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial 
relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


23. Cureus. 2025 Jun 14;17(6):e86013. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86013. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

Multimodal Reconstruction Approaches in Diabetic Foot Ulcers.

Lk V(1), R M(1), Kanchana K(2), Sreedevi BV(1).

Author information:
(1)General Surgery, Sree Balaji Medical College and Hospital, Chennai, IND.
(2)Plastic Surgery, Sree Balaji Medical College and Hospital, Chennai, IND.

INTRODUCTION: Diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) are a common and serious complication 
of diabetes mellitus, often leading to prolonged morbidity and limb amputation. 
Successful management involves early debridement, infection control, and 
appropriate soft tissue coverage.
METHODS: The present study is a retrospective case series conducted from March 1 
to August 31, 2024, involving seven patients with chronic DFUs at Sree Balaji 
Medical College and Hospital. Each case underwent individualized reconstruction 
strategies, including split-thickness skin grafts (STSGs), reverse sural artery 
flaps, medial plantar artery flaps, cross-leg flaps, and conservative healing, 
depending on wound location, depth, and vascular status.
RESULTS: All patients demonstrated favorable outcomes in terms of graft/flap 
viability and wound healing. Functional recovery was satisfactory in each case. 
No major complications or recurrences were observed during follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Early and tailored multimodal reconstructive approaches yield 
positive outcomes in DFUs. Strategic planning based on anatomical site and 
biomechanical load is crucial for effective limb salvage.

Copyright © 2025, LK et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86013
PMCID: PMC12261380
PMID: 40666571

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Animal subjects: All authors have confirmed that this study did not 
involve animal subjects or tissue. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


24. Cureus. 2025 Jun 14;17(6):e86030. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86030. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

Association of Dyslipidemia With Dermatological Manifestations in Patients With 
Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.

Tirmizi SS(1), Akhtar SM(2), Rajput AN(3), Anwar A(4)(5), Tariq U(6), Hashmi 
AA(7).

Author information:
(1)Dermatology, Hamdard Medical University, Karachi, PAK.
(2)Internal Medicine, Shaikh Tahnoon Bin Mohammed Medical City, Abu Dhabi, ARE.
(3)Internal Medicine, Amana Healthcare, Abu Dhabi, ARE.
(4)Physiology, Hamdard College of Medicine and Dentistry, Karachi, PAK.
(5)Internal Medicine, Sindh Government Hospital, Karachi, PAK.
(6)Internal Medicine, Army Medical College, Rawalpindi, PAK.
(7)Pathology, Liaquat National Hospital and Medical College, Karachi, PAK.

Objectives Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is frequently related with various 
cutaneous manifestations, which may be influenced by comorbid conditions such as 
dyslipidemia. Hence, this study compared the demographic to match clinical and 
dermatological profiles of T2DM patients with and without dyslipidemia. 
Methodology This cross-sectional study was conducted at a secondary care 
hospital using a non-probability convenient sampling technique over six months. 
A total of 280 T2DM patients aged 40-65 years were included in this study. 
Patients were distributed into two equal groups: Group A (with dyslipidemia) and 
Group B (without dyslipidemia). Data on demographics, clinical history, 
lifestyle factors, treatment regimens, and dermatological findings were 
collected using structured questionnaires, physical examinations, and laboratory 
tests. A Chi-square test and a Mann-Whitney test were applied to examine the 
association of dermatological symptoms in T2DM. A p-value < 0.05 was reflected 
as statistically significant. Results The study findings showed that a 
significant gender disparity was observed: all patients in Group A were male 
subjects at 140 (100%), while Group B were predominantly female subjects at 
88.6% (p<0.001). A larger proportion of Group A had diabetes for more than five 
years, 47 (33.6%) compared to Group B at 14 (10.0%), (p<0.001), and more 
frequent use of insulin and oral hypoglycemic agents (p=0.001). Xerosis with 
fissured skin was significantly more common in Group B at 109(77.9%), (p<0.001). 
The presence of bullae was also significantly greater in Group B at 54(38.6%) as 
compared to Group A at 25 (17.9%) (p<0.001). Although acanthosis nigricans 
showed no significant difference, it was slightly more prevalent in Group B. 
Conclusion This study concluded that the dermatological manifestations were 
common among T2DM patients, with notable differences based on dyslipidemia 
status. Patients without dyslipidemia showed a higher prevalence of xerosis, 
ichthyosis, callosities, and bullae, whereas paresthesias were more frequently 
observed in those with dyslipidemia.

Copyright © 2025, Tirmizi et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86030
PMCID: PMC12260251
PMID: 40666554

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Ethical Review Board, Sindh Government Hospital, Karachi issued approval 
SGH/(2.A/Landhi)1754. Animal subjects: All authors have confirmed that this 
study did not involve animal subjects or tissue. Conflicts of interest: In 
compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the 
following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial 
support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial 
relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial 
relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


25. Front Immunol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1513009. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1513009. 
eCollection 2025.

CXCR5 engineered human and murine Tregs for targeted suppression in secondary 
and tertiary lymphoid organs.

Doglio M(#)(1), Rana J(#)(2), Stucchi A(#)(3), Melero MM(2), Ugolini A(1), Jofra 
T(3), Toma C(1), Bercher-Brayer C(1), Carulli P(1), Kumar S(2), Monti P(3), 
Martini E(1), Thirumurugan S(2), Biswas M(2), Bonini C(1), Fousteri G(3).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Hematology Unit, Division of Immunology Transplantation and 
Infectious Diseases (DITID), IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, 
Milan, Italy.
(2)Herman B Wells Center for Pediatric Research, Indiana University, 
Indianapolis, IN, United States.
(3)Diabetes Research Institute, Division of Immunology, Transplantation and 
Infectious Diseases (DITID), IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, 
Milan, Italy.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Secondary and tertiary lymphoid structures are a critical target 
of suppression in many autoimmune disorders, protein replacement therapies, and 
in transplantation. Although antigen-specific regulatory T cells (Tregs), such 
as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) Tregs, generally persist longer and localize 
to target tissues more effectively than polyclonal Tregs in animal models, their 
numbers still progressively decline over time. A potential approach to maximize 
Treg activity in vivo is the expression of chemokine receptors such as CXCR5, 
which would enable localization of a greater number of engineered cells at sites 
of antigen presentation. Indeed, CXCR5 expression on follicular T helper cells 
and follicular Tregs enables migration toward lymph nodes, B cell zones, and 
tertiary lymphoid structures that appear in chronically inflamed non-lymphoid 
tissues.
METHODS: In this study, we generated human and murine CXCR5 co-expressing 
engineered receptor Tregs and tested them in preclinical mouse models of 
allo-immunity and hemophilia A, respectively. Additionally, we engineered a 
murine CXCR5 co-expressing clotting factor VIII (FVIII) specific T cell receptor 
fusion construct epsilon (FVIII TRuCe CXCR5) Treg to suppress anti-drug antibody 
development in a model of FVIII protein replacement therapy for hemophilia A.
RESULTS: In vitro, anti-HLA-A2 CXCR5+ CAR-Tregs showed enhanced migratory and 
antigen-specific suppressive capacities compared to untransduced Tregs. When 
injected into an NSG mouse model of HLA-A2+ pancreatic islet transplantation, 
anti-HLA-A2 CXCR5+ CAR-Tregs maintained a good safety profile allowing for 
long-term graft survival in contrast to anti-HLA-A2 CXCR5+ conventional CAR-T 
(Tconv) cells that eliminated the graft. Similarly, FVIII TRuCe CXCR5 Treg 
demonstrated increased in vivo persistence and suppressive capacity in a murine 
model of hemophilia A.
DISCUSSION: Collectively, our findings indicate that CXCR5 co-expression is safe 
and enhances in vivo localization and persistence in target tissues. This 
strategy can potentially promote targeted tolerance without the risk of 
off-target effects in multiple disease models.

Copyright © 2025 Doglio, Rana, Stucchi, Melero, Ugolini, Jofra, Toma, 
Bercher-Brayer, Carulli, Kumar, Monti, Martini, Thirumurugan, Biswas, Bonini and 
Fousteri.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1513009
PMCID: PMC12261343
PMID: 40666520

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


26. Juntendo Med J. 2025 Jun 6;71(3):187-194. doi: 10.14789/ejmj.JMJ24-0049-OA. 
eCollection 2025.

The Role of Tumor-associated Macrophages in Colorectal Peritoneal Metastasis in 
Mice.

Kawaguchi M, Kawai M, Munakata S, Ishihara H, Tsuchiya Y, Honjo K, Sugimoto K, 
Takahashi M, Sakamoto K.

INTRODUCTION: In the tumor microenvironment, macrophages function as M1 
macrophages, which cause cytotoxicity to tumor cells in the early stages, and M2 
macrophages, which contribute to the proliferation of cancer cells in the late 
stages. This study aimed to examine the mechanism of action of macrophages in 
ascites using a peritoneal dissemination mouse model of colorectal cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Mouse models of peritoneal dissemination were created by 
injecting murine colorectal cancer cells into the abdominal cavity of non-obese 
diabetic/severely combined immunodeficient mice. Surface markers for M1 (CD38, 
CD68) and M2 (CD83, CD206) were used for macrophage differentiation via flow 
cytometry. Quantitative PCR and microarray gene expression analyses were 
performed on macrophages isolated from ascites. Additionally, a macrophage 
inhibitor (clodronate) and IL-10 inhibitor (AS101) were injected 
intra-abdominally, and the weight of peritoneally disseminated nodules was 
compared.
RESULTS: M1 macrophage counts showed no change over time, while M2 counts and 
the expression of arginase 1 and IL-10 increased. Clodronate administration 
significantly reduced the weight of peritoneally disseminated nodules. and AS101 
administration reduced tumor size.
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that cytokine and gene expression analyses of 
TAMs should be further explored to improve targeted anticancer therapy.

© 2025 The Juntendo Medical Society.

DOI: 10.14789/ejmj.JMJ24-0049-OA
PMCID: PMC12257220
PMID: 40666494

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


27. Juntendo Med J. 2025 May 9;71(3):158-165. doi: 10.14789/ejmj.JMJ25-0001-R. 
eCollection 2025.

Pancreatic β-cell Dysfunction and Diabetes.

Iida H, Watada H.

The prevalence of diabetes continues to increase globally, posing a pressing 
issue for healthcare. Diabetes is primarily characterized by hyperglycemia, 
resulting from an absolute or relative deficiency in insulin activity, and is 
associated with systemic micro- and macro-vascular complications. Although 
diabetes encompasses multiple pathophysiological conditions based on its 
underlying mechanisms, pancreatic β-cell dysfunction is a common feature. 
Pancreatic β-cells play a critical role in maintaining normal blood glucose 
levels by producing and secreting insulin in response to blood glucose 
concentrations. However, when β-cell dysfunction occurs, the cells fail to 
supply sufficient insulin to meet peripheral insulin demands, resulting in 
elevated blood glucose levels. Although multiple mechanisms contribute to β-cell 
impairment, these mechanisms often share overlapping pathways and can interact 
to exacerbate their detrimental effects. Understanding the causes of β-cell 
dysfunction is essential for the prevention and treatment of diabetes. This 
review highlights the primary functions of pancreatic β-cells, including insulin 
biosynthesis and secretion, and provides an overview of the molecular mechanisms 
underlying β-cell dysfunction.

© 2025 The Juntendo Medical Society.

DOI: 10.14789/ejmj.JMJ25-0001-R
PMCID: PMC12257219
PMID: 40666490

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


28. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2025 Jun 26;16(7):1365-1372. doi: 
10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00249. eCollection 2025 Jul 10.

Development and Preclinical Evaluation of PET Radiotracers Targeting Adenosine 
A(1) Receptors.

Bakhoda AG(1)(2), Pearson TD(1), Gao ZG(3), O'Conor KA(1), Eisenberg SM(1), 
Kelleher AC(1), Kang Y(1)(4), Liow JS(5), Choi JY(6), Kim W(1), Seo J(1), 
Freaney ML(1), Jacobson KA(3), Volkow ND(1), Kim SW(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuroimaging, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and 
Alcoholism, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, United 
States.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Towson University, Towson, Maryland 21252, United 
States.
(3)Laboratory of Bioorganic Chemistry, National Institute of Diabetes and 
Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 
20892, United States.
(4)Department of Mathematics, Howard University, Washington, District of 
Columbia 20059, United States.
(5)Molecular Imaging Branch, National Institute of Mental Health, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, United States.
(6)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Queens College, 65-30 Kissena 
Boulevard, Flushing, New York 11367, United States.

Several adenosine A1 receptor (A1R) radiotracers for positron emission 
tomography (PET) have been developed to study their neuromodulatory functions 
and role in brain disorders. While two xanthine-based radiotracers ([11C]-MPDX 
and [18F]-CPFPX) have been used in humans, we aimed to improve the metabolic 
stability and specific binding. Guided by structure-activity relationship (SAR) 
studies, 10 derivatives were synthesized with binding affinities up to 0.12 nM. 
Three subnanomolar candidates (3, 8, 9) were radiolabeled with C-11 (t 1/2 = 
20.4 min) for evaluation using in vivo PET imaging and ex vivo rodent brain 
biodistribution. Although [11C]8 demonstrated a higher blood-brain barrier (BBB) 
permeability, negligible in vivo specific binding was observed. Ex vivo studies 
indicated that all three compounds are substrates for brain efflux pumps. 
Despite optimized affinity, BBB permeability and in vivo binding specificity 
remain challenges. These findings inform development of nonxanthine A1R 
radiotracers and highly potent CNS A1R drugs.

© 2025 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00249
PMCID: PMC12257374
PMID: 40666472


29. Front Pediatr. 2025 Jul 1;13:1646197. doi: 10.3389/fped.2025.1646197. 
eCollection 2025.

Editorial: Disorders of sex development in children: advancing multidisciplinary 
approaches for complex diagnosis and management.

Hidouri S(1), Kalaitzoglou E(2), Romero CJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Zaghouan Hospital, Zghoaun, Faculty of 
Medicine of Monastir, LR12SP13, Monastir, Tunisia.
(2)Department of Pediatrics and Barnstable Brown Diabetes Center, University of 
Kentucky, Lexington, KY, United States.
(3)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, NY, United 
States.

DOI: 10.3389/fped.2025.1646197
PMCID: PMC12259563
PMID: 40666385

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


30. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 24:2025.06.23.25329883. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.25329883.

Immunological Signatures During Type 2 Diabetes Development and Progression 
among Mexican Americans in Starr County, Texas.

Biguetti CC, Chaves-Neto AH, Elvin P, Fontaine J, Brown EL, Hanis CL, Fakhouri 
WD.

Previous studies implicate immune dysregulation in the metabolic changes 
accompanying obesity and type 2 diabetes. This study investigated the interplay 
between metabolic and immunological parameters during the progression of type 2 
diabetes in an obese Mexican American cohort from Starr County, Texas. 
Individuals matched for age, gender, and BMI were stratified into five 
categories: diabetes-free, isolated impaired glucose tolerance, combined glucose 
impairment (fasting or post-load), type 2 diabetes without complications, and 
type 2 diabetes with lower extremity complications. Buffy samples were analyzed 
via Luminex Multiplex Assay for IL-4, IL-17A, MCP-1, and HMGB1. HMGB1 levels 
were significantly elevated in individuals with prediabetes and the combined 
glucose intolerance group compared to the diabetes-free group and those with 
diabetes. Elevated HMGB1 levels positively correlated with Homeostatic Model 
Assessment (HOMA) for insulin resistance (p = 0.03) and showed a moderate 
negative correlation with insulin sensitivity (p = 0.060). IL-17A levels were 
elevated in the diabetes group without complications compared to those with 
combined glucose impairment. The combined diabetes group exhibited the poorest 
glycemic control. In summary, HMGB1 is a potential early marker of insulin 
resistance and diabetes progression in Mexican Americans from an underserved 
community.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.25329883
PMCID: PMC12262761
PMID: 40666367


31. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 23:2025.06.22.25330080. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.22.25330080.

Dissecting the Genetic Relationship Between Severe Mental Disorders and 
Autoimmune Diseases.

Wiström ED, Fuhrer J, Shadrin A, Fominykh V, O'Connell KS, Jaholkowski P, Steen 
NE, Stinson SE, Parekh P, Frei O, Rødevand L, Parker N, Haavik J, Djurovic S, 
Dale AM, Andreassen OA, Smeland OB.

Severe mental disorders have been linked to immune system dysfunction. While a 
genetic association between mental disorders and autoimmune diseases has been 
suggested, their genetic relationship remains incompletely understood. Utilizing 
a complementary set of statistical analyses, we conducted a comprehensive 
investigation of the genetic architecture between severe mental disorders (major 
depression (MD), bipolar disorder (BD), and schizophrenia (SCZ)) and seven 
autoimmune diseases (autoimmune thyroiditis, celiac disease, inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD), multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, and type 1 
diabetes), involving a total of 667,518 cases from 10 genome-wide association 
studies. While MD was positively genetically correlated with five autoimmune 
diseases, BD and SCZ were only positively correlated with IBD, suggesting 
differences in the genetic signal shared with autoimmunity across these mental 
disorders. A considerable fraction of genetic variants influencing autoimmune 
diseases (range 17.1-88.4 %) were estimated to overlap with mental disorders; 
however, this constitutes only a minor part of genetic variants influencing the 
more polygenic mental disorders. Finally, we identified 172 genetic loci jointly 
affecting mental disorders and autoimmune diseases, implicating both lipid 
metabolism and TNF signaling. In conclusion, MD, BD, and SCZ have a small but 
distinct genetic overlap with autoimmune diseases, which may inform new possible 
immune targets for treatment in mental illness.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.22.25330080
PMCID: PMC12262775
PMID: 40666362


32. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 28:2025.06.27.25330451. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.27.25330451.

Heightened Risk of Myocardial Ischemia with Mental Stress Among Black Women 
Survivors of a Myocardial Infarction in Midlife.

Vaccarino V, Shah AJ, Lewis TT, Piccinelli M, Elon L, She H, Ko YA, Martin ZT, 
Murrah N, Shallenberger L, Roberts T, Stefanos L, Bremner JD, Raggi P, Quyyumi 
A.

BACKGROUND: Stark disparities in the outcome of myocardial infarction (MI) 
persist, with large unexplained variations affecting younger Black women. Mental 
stress induced myocardial ischemia (MSIMI) is an emerging mechanistic pathway 
that may help explain excess risks in this group.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether MSIMI is more common in Black women with recent 
premature MI than other demographic groups.
METHODS: We studied 602 individuals ≤ 61 years of age who were hospitalized for 
MI in the previous 8 months. Participants underwent 99mTc-sestamibi myocardial 
perfusion imaging at rest and after mental stress (speech task). A summed 
difference score (SDS) was used to quantify ischemia. Clinically significant 
MSIMI was defined as an SDS ≥3. Log-binomial regression models adjusted for 
sociodemographic, lifestyle, clinical and psychosocial factors.
RESULTS: The mean age was 51 years (range, 25-61), 46% were women and 59% 
self-identified as Black. Black women had a more adverse psychosocial profile 
and higher rates of obesity and diabetes, but a less severe index MI. The 
incidence of MSIMI was approximately doubled in Black women than the other 
groups (p<.001 for interaction). Clinical and psychosocial risk factors did not 
explain these differences. In a fully adjusted model, the risk ratio of MSIMI 
for Black women was 2.2 (95% CI, 2.0-2.5) compared to Black men, 2.3 (1.8-2.9) 
compared to non-Black women, and 1.8 (1.4-2.2) compared to non-Black men.
CONCLUSIONS: Among midlife individuals with a recent MI, Black women have a 
disproportionately higher risk of MSIMI. Targeted interventions for this 
high-risk group are needed.
CLINICAL PERSPECTIVE: What is new?: We show for the first time that Black women 
in midlife who have recently experienced a myocardial infarction face a 
disproportionately high risk of developing myocardial ischemia when under mental 
stress. This elevated risk cannot be attributed to more severe coronary artery 
disease, suggesting a stress-related cardiovascular vulnerability that may help 
explain why Black women experience both higher rates of premature heart attacks 
and worse outcomes following these events.What are the clinical implications?: 
The high rate of ischemia with mental stress in Black women highlights the need 
for new targeted risk assessment protocols and prevention strategies that go 
beyond the control of conventional risk factors to address stress-related risk 
pathways. This paradigm shift in cardiac care should help reduce cardiovascular 
disparities and improve outcomes in this historically underserved population.
GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT: Differences in Myocardial Ischemia with Mental Stress by Sex 
and Race: Among 602 individuals ≤ 61 years of age who were hospitalized for a 
myocardial infarction in the previous 8 months, and who underwent myocardial 
perfusion imaging with mental stress, Black women had approximately a twofold 
higher risk of developing myocardial ischemia compared with other demographic 
groups, even after adjusting for clinical and psychosocial factors.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.27.25330451
PMCID: PMC12262774
PMID: 40666349


33. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 28:2025.06.27.25330278. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.27.25330278.

AI-Derived Splenic Response in Cardiac PET Predicts Mortality: A Multi-Site 
Study.

Dharmavaram NL, Ramirez G, Shanbhag A, Miller RJ, Kavanagh PB, Yi J, Lemley M, 
Builoff V, Marcinkiewicz A, Dey D, Hainer J, Wopperer S, Knight S, Le VT, Mason 
S, Alexanderson E, Carvajal-Juarez I, Packard RR, Rosamond TL, Al-Mallah MH, 
Slipczuk LN, Travin MI, Acampa W, Einstein AJ, Chareonthaitawee P, Berman DS, Di 
Carli MF, Slomka PJ.

BACKGROUND: Inadequate pharmacologic stress may limit the diagnostic and 
prognostic accuracy of myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI). The splenic ratio 
(SR), a measure of stress adequacy, has emerged as a potential imaging 
biomarker.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the prognostic value of artificial intelligence 
(AI)-derived SR in a large multicenter 82 Rb-PET cohort undergoing regadenoson 
stress testing.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 10,913 patients from three sites in the 
REFINE PET registry with clinically indicated MPI and linked clinical outcomes. 
SR was calculated using fully automated algorithms as the ratio of splenic 
uptake at stress versus rest. Patients were stratified by SR into high (≥90th 
percentile) and low (<90th percentile) groups. The primary outcome was major 
adverse cardiovascular events (MACE). Survival analysis was conducted using 
Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for clinical and 
imaging covariates, including myocardial flow reserve (MFR ≥2 vs. <2).
RESULTS: The cohort had a median age of 68 years, with 57% male patients. Common 
risk factors included hypertension (84%), dyslipidemia (76%), diabetes (33%), 
and prior coronary artery disease (31%). Median follow-up was 4.6 years. 
Patients with high SR (n=1,091) had an increased risk of MACE (HR 1.18, 95% CI 
1.06-1.31, p=0.002). Among patients with preserved MFR (≥2; n=7,310), high SR 
remained independently associated with MACE (HR 1.44, 95% CI 1.24-1.67, 
p<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated AI-derived SR was independently associated with adverse 
cardiovascular outcomes, including among patients with preserved MFR. These 
findings support SR as a novel, automated imaging biomarker for risk 
stratification in 82 Rb PET MPI.
CONDENSED ABSTRACT: AI-derived splenic ratio (SR), a marker of pharmacologic 
stress adequacy, was independently associated with increased cardiovascular risk 
in a large 82 Rb PET cohort, even among patients with preserved myocardial flow 
reserve (MFR). High SR identified individuals with elevated MACE risk despite 
normal perfusion and flow findings, suggesting unrecognized physiologic 
vulnerability. Incorporating automated SR into PET MPI interpretation may 
enhance risk stratification and identify patients who could benefit from 
intensified preventive care, particularly when traditional imaging markers 
appear reassuring. These findings support SR as a clinically meaningful, easily 
integrated biomarker in stress PET imaging.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.27.25330278
PMCID: PMC12262751
PMID: 40666346


34. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 23:2025.06.23.25330130. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.25330130.

Neurocognition in youth with versus without prediabetes.

Quillian J, Attuquayefio T, Sung J, Canna A, Ko T, Davis X, Maciejewski K, Li F, 
Santoro N, Pierpont B, Kullmann S, Preissl H, Morys F, Dagher A, Caprio S, Small 
DM.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Type 2 diabetes has a well-established link to cognitive 
impairment in older adults; however, studies often do not control for adiposity 
and co-morbid conditions which might mediate this cognitive impairment. To 
overcome these limitations, we investigated the relation between prediabetes and 
cognition in youth with overweight/obesity while controlling for adiposity in a 
cross-sectional ancillary study to the Pathogenesis of Youth Onset Diabetes 
(PYOD) study. We reasoned that if glucose control directly impacts brain health, 
then cognitive function should be worse in youth with versus without 
prediabetes. We also predicted that this effect should be greater on tasks that 
depend on dopaminergic function, such as working memory and that it may be 
related to central insulin sensitivity.
METHODS: We evaluated 69 youth with overweight/obesity for anthropomorphic and 
metabolic measures, abdominal adiposity, comprehensive cognitive testing, and 
the effects of intranasal insulin on cognition, resting state brain activity, 
and functional connectivity. Oral glucose tolerance tests classified 22 
participants as having prediabetes (preT2D+) and 44 participants as having 
normal glucose control (preT2D-).
RESULTS: Groups did not differ in age, sex, race, diet, or adiposity measures. 
IQ was significantly lower (p=0.032) in the preT2D+ group compared to the 
preT2D-group. The preT2D+ group performed worse than the preT2D-group in tasks 
of working memory (p<.0.001), reaction time (p=0.01), and visuospatial 
processing (p=0.02). After considering IQ as a model covariate, only spatial 
working memory showed a significant difference between groups (p=0.002). Insulin 
sensitivity across the entire sample was negatively correlated with processing 
speed in two tasks (reaction time index: p=0.022; and trail making test A: 
p=0.022) and with the sensitivity of the intraparietal sulcus to intranasal 
insulin administration. Administration of intranasal insulin showed no effect on 
cognition within or between groups. However, the extent to which intranasal 
insulin administration influenced caudate functional connectivity with the right 
intraparietal sulcus (p (FWE) =0.018) and bilateral medial precuneus (p (FWE) 
=0.03) was correlated with performance on the spatial working memory task.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: We find evidence for the presence of global 
cognitive impairment in youth with prediabetes that cannot be accounted for by 
adiposity, as well as a specific deficit in spatial working memory that is not 
attributable to global cognitive impairment. We identified associations between 
central insulin sensitivity and both cognition and peripheral insulin 
sensitivity; however, central insulin sensitivity did not appear to account for 
the effect of prediabetes on cognition. These findings show that the association 
between peripheral glucose intolerance and cognition exists early in the course 
of the disease, prior to the onset of significant comorbid conditions and 
independently of adiposity. It also suggests the involvement of both generalized 
and specific mechanisms contributing to cognitive change.
RESEARCH IN CONTEXT: What is already known about this subject? (maximum of 3 
bullet points) Type 2 diabetes and prediabetes have been associated with an 
increased risk of dementia and cognitive impairment on dopaminergic tasksThe 
mechanism of this cognitive impairment and if it is dissociable from adiposity 
or comorbid conditions related to old age is unknownIt is unclear whether youth 
with prediabetes are at risk for cognitive impairment from impaired insulin 
sensitivity/glucose regulation What is the key question? (one bullet point only; 
formatted as a question) Do youth with prediabetes show cognitive impairment 
independent of adiposity, and is this related to insulin sensitivity of 
dopaminergic systems? What are the new findings? (maximum of 3 bullet points) 
Youth with prediabetes show global cognitive impairment, as well as particular 
impairment of spatial working memory, independent of adiposityInsulin 
sensitivity of caudate functional connectivity with right intraparietal sulcus 
and bilateral precuneus is correlated with prior performance on a spatial 
working memory task How might this impact on clinical practice in the 
foreseeable future? (one bullet point only) These findings provide evidence that 
suggests that youth with prediabetes are at risk for cognitive impairment, 
indicating early detection and treatment of impaired insulin sensitivity is 
crucial.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.25330130
PMCID: PMC12262770
PMID: 40666321


35. EJHaem. 2025 Jul 15;6(4):e70103. doi: 10.1002/jha2.70103. eCollection 2025
Aug.

Post-Diagnosis Hemorrhagic Events Are Strongly Associated With Poor Survival in 
Patients With Essential Thrombocythemia.

Hashimoto Y(1), Ito T(2), Gotoh A(3), Nakamae M(4), Kimura F(5), Koike M(6), 
Kirito K(7), Wada H(8), Usuki K(9), Tanaka T(1), Mori T(10)(11), Wakita S(12), 
Saito TI(13), Kada A(13), Saito AM(13), Shimoda K(14), Sugimoto Y(15), Kurokawa 
T(16), Tomita A(17), Edahiro Y(18)(19), Kiyoi H(20), Akashi K(21), Matsumura 
I(22), Takenaka K(23), Komatsu N(18)(19)(24).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology Tottori Prefectural Central Hospital Tottori Tottori 
Japan.
(2)First Department of Internal Medicine Kansai Medical University Hirakata 
Osaka Japan.
(3)Department of Hematology Tokyo Medical University Shinjuku-ku Tokyo Japan.
(4)Department of Hematology Osaka Metropolitan University Graduate School of 
Medicine Osaka Japan.
(5)Division of Hematology National Defense Medical College Tokorozawa Saitama 
Japan.
(6)Department of Hematology Juntendo University Shizuoka Hospital Izunokuni 
Shizuoka Japan.
(7)Department of Hematology and Oncology University of Yamanashi Chuo-Shi 
Yamanashi Japan.
(8)Department of Hematology Kawasaki Medical School Kurashiki Okayama Japan.
(9)Department of Hematology NTT Medical Center Tokyo Shinagawa Tokyo Japan.
(10)Division of Hematology Keio University School of Medicine Shinjuku-ku Tokyo 
Japan.
(11)Department of Hematology Tokyo Medical and Dental University Bunkyo City 
Tokyo Japan.
(12)Department of Hematology Nippon Medical School Bunkyo City Tokyo Japan.
(13)Clinical Research Center NHO Nagoya Medical Center Nagoya Aichi Japan.
(14)Division of Hematology Diabetes, and Endocrinology Department of Internal 
Medicine Faculty of Medicine University of Miyazaki Miyazaki Miyazaki Japan.
(15)Department of Hematology and Oncology Mie University Tsu Mie Japan.
(16)Department of Hematology Toyama Red Cross Hospital Toyama Japan.
(17)Department of Hematology Fujita Health University School of Medicine Toyoake 
Aichi Japan.
(18)Department of Hematology Juntendo University School of Medicine Bunkyo City 
Tokyo Japan.
(19)Department of Advanced Hematology Juntendo University School of Medicine 
Bunkyo City Tokyo Japan.
(20)Department of Hematology and Oncology Nagoya University Graduate School of 
Medicine Nagoya Aichi Japan.
(21)Department of Medicine and Biosystemic Science Kyushu University Fukuoka 
Fukuoka Japan.
(22)Department of Hematology and Rheumatology Faculty of Medicine Kindai 
University Higashiosaka Osaka Japan.
(23)Department of Hematology Clinical Immunology and Infectious Diseases Ehime 
University Graduate School of Medicine Toon Ehime Japan.
(24)PharmaEssentia Japan KK Minato-ku Tokyo Japan.

OBJECTIVES: The present study investigated the effects of thrombosis, 
hemorrhagic events, disease progression, and secondary malignancies on patient 
survival after the diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia (ET).
METHODS: We analyzed data from 1152 patients enrolled in the JSH-MPN-18 study 
using time-dependent Cox regression and multistate Markov models to estimate 
transition hazards and state occupation probabilities.
RESULTS: Hemorrhagic events (hazard ratio = 2.92, 95% confidence interval = 
1.78-4.78, p < 0.001) was associated with a poor prognosis. In multistate model, 
hazards from the hemorrhagic event to death were higher among cumulative 
transition hazards, and the probability of remaining in the hemorrhagic state 
was lower than the probability of remaining in the other states of thrombosis, 
disease progression, and secondary malignancy in state occupancy probabilities.
CONCLUSIONS: The present results demonstrated that hemorrhagic events following 
the diagnosis of ET are a serious risk factor and are directly related to early 
death. Baseline characteristics and post-diagnosis events (intermediate status) 
may both have a significant impact on survival, and treatment strategies that 
take into account the prevention of an intermediate status need to be 
incorporated into clinical practice.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The authors have confirmed clinical trial registration is 
not needed for this submission.

© 2025 The Author(s). eJHaem published by British Society for Haematology and 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jha2.70103
PMCID: PMC12260263
PMID: 40666293

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


36. Cureus. 2025 Jul 15;17(7):e87980. doi: 10.7759/cureus.87980. eCollection 2025
 Jul.

The Hideous Side of Acute Pancreatitis: A Case of Pancreatitis-Induced Atypical 
Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome.

Al-Ali H(1), Elmogy A(2)(3), Arsh H(3), Rhee H(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, St. George's University School of Medicine, True Blue, 
GRD.
(2)Cardiovascular Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo, EGY.
(3)Internal Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Queens Hospital 
Center, New York City, USA.

Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is a medical emergency characterized by 
thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and acute kidney injury 
(AKI). Its subtypes, including thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), 
atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS), and secondary TMA, require rapid 
differentiation due to divergent treatments. Acute pancreatitis, in some cases, 
can trigger TMA through systemic inflammation and complement activation. A 
middle-aged male with chronic kidney disease and diabetes was admitted for acute 
pancreatitis, likely in the setting of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) use. On 
day 3, he developed progressive thrombocytopenia, anemia, and worsening renal 
function. Peripheral smear showed schistocytes; laboratory values were 
remarkable for hemolysis. Given the high suspicion for TMA and a PLASMIC score 
of 5, empiric plasma exchange and corticosteroids were initiated, which showed 
clinical improvement. ADAMTS13 activity returned at 99%, effectively excluding 
TTP. Complement studies for aHUS were inconclusive and were obtained post-plasma 
exchange, which can alter results. The patient completed five sessions of plasma 
exchange and was discharged in stable condition. A follow-up was arranged for 
hematology. This case highlights the diagnostic complexity of TMA triggered by 
acute pancreatitis and the necessity of early empiric treatment. It also calls 
attention to the limitations of delayed ADAMTS13 and complement testing and 
advocates for broader implementation of rapid in-house assays to guide timely, 
precise therapy.

Copyright © 2025, Al-Ali et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.87980
PMCID: PMC12261809
PMID: 40666268

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


37. Cureus. 2025 Jul 15;17(7):e87968. doi: 10.7759/cureus.87968. eCollection 2025
 Jul.

Impact of E-health Literacy on Diabetes Self-Care Activities Among People With 
Type 2 Diabetes Attending Primary Healthcare Centers in Makkah City, Saudi 
Arabia: A Cross-Sectional Study, 2025.

AlShehri WS(1), Khojah YY(2).

Author information:
(1)Public Health, Makkah Health Cluster, Makkah, SAU.
(2)Infection Prevention and Control, King Fahad General Hospital, Jeddah, SAU.

BACKGROUND:  The rising prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in Saudi 
Arabia necessitates effective self-management strategies. E-health literacy, the 
ability to access and utilize digital health information, may play a critical 
role in improving diabetes self-care. This study examined the relationship 
between e-health literacy and self-care activities among patients with T2DM in 
Makkah City.
METHODOLOGY:  A cross-sectional study was conducted with 360 patients with T2DM 
attending primary healthcare centers in Makkah. Participants completed a 
structured questionnaire assessing sociodemographic characteristics, e-health 
literacy, and diabetes self-care activities. Hierarchical regression and 
logistic regression analyses were performed to evaluate associations while 
controlling for confounders.
RESULTS:  The mean e-health literacy score was moderate (3.13/5), with 
significant gaps in evaluating online health resources. Higher e-health literacy 
was strongly associated with improved self-care practices (β = 0.497, P < 0.001) 
and better glycemic control (odds ratio (OR) = 2.985, P < 0.001). Key barriers 
included difficulty understanding medical terms (205, 56.9%), distrust in online 
sources (196, 54.4%), and lack of time (220, 61.1%). Significant disparities 
were observed, with males, younger individuals, and those with higher education 
and income reporting greater e-health literacy.
CONCLUSIONS:  E-health literacy significantly influences diabetes self-care and 
glycemic outcomes among patients with T2DM in Saudi Arabia. However, barriers 
such as limited digital skills and distrust in online health information hinder 
optimal utilization. Targeted interventions to enhance e-health literacy, 
particularly for older, less educated, and female patients, are essential for 
improving diabetes management. Future research should explore culturally 
tailored digital health education programs to bridge these gaps.

Copyright © 2025, AlShehri et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.87968
PMCID: PMC12261261
PMID: 40666264

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Institutional Review Board (IRB) of the Ministry of Health - Makkah 
issued approval H-02-K-076-0225-1291. Animal subjects: All authors have 
confirmed that this study did not involve animal subjects or tissue. Conflicts 
of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors 
declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no 
financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. 
Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial 
relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


38. Pediatr Discov. 2025 Jan 25;3(2):e2517. doi: 10.1002/pdi3.2517. eCollection
2025  Jun.

Spina bifida as a multifactorial birth defect: Risk factors and genetic 
underpinnings.

Wong ES(1), Hu DA(1)(2), Zhang L(1), Qi R(1), Xu C(1), Mei O(1)(3), Shen 
G(1)(4), You W(1)(5), Luo C(1)(6), He TC(1)(7), Reid RR(1)(7), Shi LS(1), Lee 
MJ(1), Zhu Y(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Oncology Laboratory Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and 
Rehabilitation Medicine The University of Chicago Medical Center Chicago IL USA.
(2)Pritzker School of Medicine The University of Chicago Medicine Chicago IL 
USA.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery Jiangxi Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine Jiangxi University of Traditional Chinese Medicine Nanchang China.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery BenQ Medical Center The Affiliated BenQ 
Hospital of Nanjing Medical University Nanjing China.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery Wuxi Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing 
University of Chinese Medicine Wuxi China.
(6)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery Yibin Second People's Hospital Affiliated 
with West China School of Medicine Yibin China.
(7)Laboratory of Craniofacial Biology and Development Section of Plastic and 
Reconstructive Surgery Department of Surgery The University of Chicago Medical 
Center Chicago IL USA.

Spina bifida is a birth defect resulting from abnormal embryonic development of 
the neural tube. Though spina bifida is divided into several subtypes, 
myelomeningocele-the most severe form of spina bifida often associated with a 
markedly diminished quality of life-accounts for a significant portion of cases. 
A broad range of genetic and environmental factors, many of which are still 
unknown, influence spina bifida, making it difficult to provide a comprehensive 
etiology for the disorder. Folic acid supplementation aided by the mandatory 
fortification of food is preventive; still, spina bifida persists due to 
numerous other confounding factors that affect risk. This article reviews the 
latest studies pertaining to the risk factors and genetics involved in spina 
bifida in an attempt to elucidate the complex background of the congenital 
malformation. Additionally, this review highlights the significant impact of 
environmental pollutants, adverse medication effects, and maternal health 
conditions such as diabetes and obesity on the prevalence of spina bifida. 
Emerging research on gene-environment interactions provides insight into how 
specific genetic variants may influence susceptibility to these environmental 
factors. We also discuss new technologies in genetic sequencing that show 
promise for the large-scale discovery of genes associated with spina bifida 
risk. Understanding these intricate interactions is crucial for developing 
effective prevention and intervention strategies.

© 2025 The Author(s). Pediatric Discovery published by John Wiley & Sons 
Australia, Ltd on behalf of Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.

DOI: 10.1002/pdi3.2517
PMCID: PMC12258106
PMID: 40666233

Conflict of interest statement: TCH and RRR serve on the Editorial Board of 
Pediatric Discovery. Both were excluded from all editorial decision‐making 
related to the acceptance of this article for publication. All other co‐authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


39. Iran J Basic Med Sci. 2025;28(5):575-583. doi:
10.22038/ijbms.2025.74876.17966.

Endurance training promotes the browning of WAT by enhancing the NPFF pathway in 
the hypothalamus in rats with type 2 diabetes.

Mousavi SM, Gorji FZ, Fallahmohammadi Z, Nasiri K, Akbari A.

OBJECTIVES: Type 2 diabetes (T2D) represents a complex and multifactorial 
disorder, and efforts to discover its treatment are necessary. Browning of white 
adipose tissue (WAT) as a therapeutic target for diabetes seems to be induced by 
exercise through neuropeptide FF (NPFF) signaling in the hypothalamus and 
adipose tissue. This study aimed to explore the role of endurance training on 
the browning of WAT by assessing the expression of the gene and protein of NPFF 
and its receptors in the hypothalamus and adipose tissue.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty adult male Wistar rats were assigned into four 
groups: control, exercise, diabetic control, and diabetic exercise. The serum 
levels of lipid profile, insulin, and glucose, along with the expression of gene 
and protein of NPFF and its receptors (NPFFR1 and NPFFR2), were evaluated in the 
hypothalamus and adipose tissue. A histological examination was performed to 
evaluate the browning of WAT.
RESULTS: Metabolic parameters notably increased in the diabetic group. The gene 
and protein expression of NPFF and its receptors significantly decreased in the 
hypothalamus and fat tissue in the diabetic group. However, these changes in the 
hypothalamus, not in the adipose tissue, were significantly improved in the 
diabetic-exercise group compared to the diabetic group. The high WAT content in 
diabetic rats was decreased by exercise, leading to an increase in the browning 
of WAT.
CONCLUSION: Endurance progressive training could centrally, not peripherally, 
promote the browning of WAT in diabetic rats by enhancing the expression of gene 
and protein of NPFF and its receptors in the hypothalamus.

© 2025. This work is openly licensed via CC BY 4.0.

DOI: 10.22038/ijbms.2025.74876.17966
PMCID: PMC12258783
PMID: 40666184

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests.


40. Iran J Basic Med Sci. 2025;28(5):662-670. doi:
10.22038/ijbms.2025.82786.17889.

Ethanol extract of Garcinia kola seeds alleviates HGHFD/STZ-induced nonalcoholic 
fatty liver disease in diabetic rats by modulating oxidative stress, 
inflammation, and lipid accumulation.

Sun X(1), Yuan Y(1), Xin X(1), Sun P(1), Sun Y(1), Xie M(1), Wang Y(2), Huang 
S(1), Li B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering and Pharmaceutical Chemistry, 
College of Chemical Engineering, Qingdao University of Science and Technology, 
Qingdao, 266042, China.
(2)National Key Laboratory of Chinese Medicine Modernization, State Key 
Laboratory of Component-based Chinese Medicine, Tianjin Key Laboratory of TCM 
Chemistry and Analysis, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Tianjin, 301617, China.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the ameliorative effects of Garcinia kola ethanol 
extract (EGK) on type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) combined with nonalcoholic 
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and to explore its underlying mechanisms.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In vivo, a T2DM rat model was established using 
HGHFD/STZ. In vitro, HepG2 cells were induced with FFA to create a model of 
lipid accumulation. Lipid accumulation (LA), oxidative stress (OS) levels, and 
inflammatory markers were measured using kit methods. Additionally, the 
expression of the SREBP-1c pathway was detected by immunohistochemistry and 
western blot (WB) to further understand the potential mechanism of EGK's 
protective effect on diabetic liver injury.
RESULTS: In vivo, EGK significantly reduced blood glucose levels (P<0.01), 
restored body weight (P<0.01), and improved liver LA, OS, and inflammatory 
levels (P<0.01) in diabetic rats. Histopathological results indicated that EGK 
effectively ameliorated diabetes-induced liver injury. Immunohistochemistry and 
WB results revealed that EGK significantly down-regulated the expression of the 
SREBP-1c pathway (P<0.01). In vitro, EGK markedly improved lipid accumulation, 
oxidative stress, and inflammation levels in HepG2 cells (P<0.01). 
Immunofluorescence and WB results showed that EGK significantly reduced the 
expression of the SREBP-1c pathway (P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: EGK alleviates T2DM combined with NAFLD by reducing lipid 
accumulation through the inhibition of oxidative stress, inflammatory responses, 
and the SREBP-1c signaling pathway.

© 2025. This work is openly licensed via CC BY 4.0.

DOI: 10.22038/ijbms.2025.82786.17889
PMCID: PMC12258791
PMID: 40666176

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests.


41. Front Physiol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1583703. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2025.1583703. 
eCollection 2025.

Comparison of two portable metabolic systems for measuring energy expenditure at 
rest and during exercise in untrained women.

Gao F(#)(1)(2)(3), Chan-Yu Y(#)(1)(2), Li Z(2)(3), Liu Y(3)(4), Liu F(1)(3), Liu 
D(1), Yu W(1)(2), Chen W(5), Wang J(1)(2)(3), Le S(1)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Taihe Hospital, Hubei University of Medicine, 
Shiyan, China.
(2)School of Biomedical Engineering, Hubei University of Medicine, Shiyan, 
China.
(3)Center for Diabetes Rehabilitation Research, Taihe Hospital, Hubei University 
of Medicine, Shiyan, China.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation, Taihe Hospital, Hubei University of Medicine, 
Shiyan, China.
(5)Department of Physical Education, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: Portable metabolic systems are used as the "gold standard" for 
measuring energy expenditure (EE) in the development and validation of wearable 
devices. This study aimed to compare EE measurements obtained using the COSMED 
K5 (K5) and CORTEX METAMAX 3B (M3B) during the resting state and 
submaximal-intensity exercise in women without self-reported regular exercise 
training.
METHODS: Twenty women aged 21.4 ± 1.5 years completed two measurements, 
including resting in a seated position and cycling on a simple upright ergometer 
at 30 W, 40 W, 50 W, and 60 W. Average EE and other metabolic parameters were 
compared between K5 and M3B. Differences between K5 and M3B were assessed using 
the paired-samples t-test, and the effect size was calculated as Cohen's d. 
Agreement between the two systems was evaluated by calculating Pearson 
correlation coefficients and visually examining Bland-Altman plots.
RESULTS: The number of participants who completed resting and exercise 
measurements was 18 and 19, respectively. For resting EE, the mean values 
measured using K5 were 33.4% higher than those measured using M3B (p < 0.001, 
Cohen's d = 1.47). Similar differences were observed for cycling at 30 W (15.8%, 
p < 0.001, Cohen's d = 1.50), 40 W (16.1%, p < 0.001, Cohen's d = 1.68), 50 W 
(14.8%, p < 0.001, Cohen's d = 1.28), and 60 W (14.6%, p < 0.001, Cohen's d = 
1.29). Pearson correlation coefficients between EE measured using K5 and M3B was 
0.66 for 30 W cycling (p = 0.002) and 0.62 for 40 W cycling (p = 0.005).
CONCLUSION: K5 and M3B show significant differences in EE measurements during 
rest and exercise among untrained female individuals, indicating systematic bias 
in EE measurement between the two systems. Thus, careful consideration is 
essential when interpreting the results of wearable device studies that use 
different automated metabolic systems.

Copyright © 2025 Gao, Chan-Yu, Li, Liu, Liu, Liu, Yu, Chen, Wang and Le.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2025.1583703
PMCID: PMC12259656
PMID: 40666118

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


42. Sex Med. 2025 Jul 15;13(3):qfaf047. doi: 10.1093/sexmed/qfaf047. eCollection 
2025 Jun.

Anorgasmia following initiation of GLP-1 agonist.

Visvabharathy V(1), MacPhedran S(1), Shupp K(2), King B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Case Western Reserve 
University/MetroHealth Medical Center, Cleveland, OH 44109, United States.
(2)Case Western Reserve University/MetroHealth Medical Center, Cleveland, OH 
44109, United States.

INTRODUCTION: According to the Obesity Medicine Association, obesity is a 
chronic, progressive, relapsing, multifactorial and treatable neurobehavioral 
disease. A small number of drugs have been approved by the Food & Drug 
Administration (FDA) for weight loss. Liraglutide, Tirzepatide, and Semaglutide 
are GLP-1 agonists and anti-diabetic drugs, and are some of the latest 
FDA-approved medications for weight loss. Up to 50% of patients experience 
gastrointestinal (GI) distress, a common side effect, while taking these 
medications. Other side effects include tachycardia, antibody-mediated 
angioedema, anaphylaxis, irritation at the injection site, and hypoglycemia. 
However, very little is known regarding sexual dysfunction as a side effect of 
GLP-1 agonists. The following case report discusses the potential negative 
impact on sexual function of these widely prescribed anti-diabetic, weight loss 
medications. The case report also discusses a proposed mechanism of action of 
GLP-1 agonists on sexual function.
AIMS: To report the sexual side effects and plausible mechanism of female 
anorgasmia from GLP-1 agonists.
METHODS: Chart review of the patient case was conducted. Consultation with a 
Doctor of Pharmacy was also requested for additional guidance on possible 
mechanisms of action of GLP-1 agonists on sexual function.
RESULTS: Several proposed mechanisms causing anorgasmia were theorized, the most 
likely being GLP-1 agonist vasoconstriction of smooth muscle, which results in 
reduced oxygen delivery and blood flow to the genitals. This may hinder genital 
engorgement and arousal, in addition to causing impairment of smooth muscle 
contractions essential for orgasms. Other mechanisms of GLP-1 agonist-induced 
anorgasmia may involve their signaling in the brain due to their presence in the 
hypothalamus. GLP-1 receptor modulation in the hypothalamus may decrease 
dopamine and norepinephrine signaling, which are neurotransmitters crucial for 
motivation, pleasure, and orgasm as well as disrupt pathways involved in sexual 
desire and arousal.
CONCLUSION: Further investigation on the prevalence of sexual dysfunction with 
GLP-1 agonists and their mechanism of action is needed.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
International Society for Sexual Medicine.

DOI: 10.1093/sexmed/qfaf047
PMCID: PMC12260840
PMID: 40666108

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


43. Front Digit Health. 2025 Jul 1;7:1596188. doi: 10.3389/fdgth.2025.1596188. 
eCollection 2025.

One-year evaluation of automated insulin delivery systems in adults with type 1 
diabetes.

Pujante P(#)(1)(2), García AV(#)(2), Villa-Fernández E(2)(3), García-Villarino 
M(2)(3), González-Vidal T(1)(2), Díaz-Naya L(2)(4), Gutiérrez Buey G(2)(4), 
Veiguela B(2)(4), Rivas-Otero D(1)(2), Menéndez-Torre E(1)(2)(3)(5), Delgado 
E(1)(2)(3)(5), Ares J(1)(2)(3), Lambert C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Nutrition, Hospital Universitario Central de 
Asturias, Oviedo, Spain.
(2)Grupo de Endocrinología, Nutrición, Diabetes y Obesidad, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria del Principado de Asturias (ISPA), Oviedo, Spain.
(3)Department of Medicine, Universidad de Oviedo, Oviedo, Spain.
(4)Department of Endocrinology and Nutrition, Hospital Universitario de 
Cabueñes, Gijón, Spain.
(5)Centre for Biomedical Network Research on Rare Diseases (CIBERER), Instituto 
de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: This study evaluates the effectiveness of four commercially 
available automated insulin delivery (AID) systems in routine clinical practice 
for type 1 diabetes management and compares their first-year outcomes.
MATERIALS: This retrospective study (October 2020-October 2023) included 
glucometric data from type 1 diabetes patients collected from the Asturias 
Automatic Insulin Devices Registry. People with type 1 diabetes using four 
different AID systems [Minimed™780G (MM780G), Accu-Chek® Insight-Diabeloop 
(DBLG), Tandem-Control-IQ, and Ypsopump Cambridge HCL-app (Cam-APS)] were 
included in the study. Primary outcomes were glycaemic control after one year. 
Secondary outcomes compared the results between the four systems.
RESULTS: 174 patients (60: MM780G, 45: DBLG, 30: Control-IQ, 39: Cam-APS), aged 
18-73, predominantly women, were enrolled. At baseline, glycemic control, 
measured by the achievement of the international consensus targets [TBR (Time 
Below Range) <4%; TIR(Time in Range) >70% and TAR (Time Above Range) <25%] was 
only met by 9.72% of participants, while after 1 year of an AID system use, it 
improved to more than 52%. When comparing between systems, TIR improved 
significantly after 1 year in all systems. However, Control-IQ did not show 
improvement in mean glucose and Glucose management index (GMI) and only users of 
DBLG showed improvement in coefficient of variation (CV). MM780G users achieved 
the best results after 12 months in mean glucose, TIR and GMI. However, their 
baseline situation was also better than that of the other groups.
DISCUSSION: This study confirms that, after 12 months of routine clinical use, 
the use of commercially available automated insulin delivery (AID) systems 
significantly improves glycemic control in individuals with type 1 diabetes. 
However, the degree of improvement varies depending on the specific system 
used.These findings underscore the importance of selecting and optimizing AID 
systems individually to maximize clinical benefits in type 1 diabetes 
management.

© 2025 Pujante, García, Villa-Fernández, García-Villarino, González-Vidal, 
Díaz-Naya, Gutiérrez Buey, Veiguela, Rivas-Otero, Menéndez-Torre, Delgado, Ares 
and Lambert.

DOI: 10.3389/fdgth.2025.1596188
PMCID: PMC12259683
PMID: 40666106

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


44. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2025 Jul 1;16:1596127. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2025.1596127. eCollection 2025.

Global burden of diabetes mellitus 1990-2021: epidemiological trends, geospatial 
disparities, and risk factor dynamics.

Pan C(1), Cao B(2), Fang H(3), Liu Y(4), Zhang S(5), Luo W(6), Wu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Hefei Xinzhuan High-tech Zone Huoshuiyuan Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Clinic, Outpatient Department, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(2)Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, First Clinical Medical College, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(3)College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Anhui University of Chinese 
Medicine, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(4)Department of Traditional Chinese Acupuncture and Tuina, the Second People's 
Hospital of Anhui Province, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(5)Pediatric Neurorehabilitation Center, the First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui 
Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(6)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Yunnan University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Kunming, Yunnan, China.

Diabetes mellitus(DM) remains a significant global health challenge, 
characterized by high incidence and Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
rates. A comprehensive understanding of the disease burden of DM is crucial for 
developing effective prevention and treatment strategies. This study analyzes 
the global burden of diabetes mellitus (DM) from 1990 to 2021 using data from 
the Global Burden of Disease Study. In 2021, DM caused 1.66 million deaths, with 
age-standardized mortality rising by 7.95% since 1990. While Type 1 diabetes 
(T1DM) mortality declined by 29.24%, Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) accounted for 97.1% 
of deaths, with a 9.75% mortality increase. Geospatial analysis revealed extreme 
disparities: Pacific Island nations exhibited incidence rates >800/100,000, 
contrasting with <3/100,000 in Costa Rica and China. T1DM burden predominated in 
high-latitude regions (e.g., Finland), whereas T2DM mirrored overall DM 
distribution. DALYs for T2DM surged by 42.32%, disproportionately affecting 
Low-SDI regions. Age-stratified analyses identified distinct patterns: T2DM 
incidence peaked at 59-69 years, while T1DM DALYs peaked in early-middle 
adulthood (40-44 years). Risk factor hierarchies highlighted metabolic risks 
(e.g., high BMI) for T2DM and ambient temperature effects for T1DM. Despite 
progress in T1DM management, rising T2DM burden underscores urgent need for 
targeted prevention strategies addressing obesity, dietary risks, and 
environmental determinants. Study limitations include potential GBD data 
inaccuracies and ecological design constraints. These findings emphasize the 
imperative for region-specific interventions to mitigate the evolving diabetes 
pandemic.

Copyright © 2025 Pan, Cao, Fang, Liu, Zhang, Luo and Wu.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2025.1596127
PMCID: PMC12259457
PMID: 40666058

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


45. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2025 Jul 1;16:1629741. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2025.1629741. eCollection 2025.

The impact of a complete nutrition diabetic formula on glycemic control and 
nutritional status in hospitalized patients with diabetes mellitus.

Wang CK(#)(1), Li KX(#)(2), Sun SQ(3), Liu TC(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, China.
(2)Le Bonta Wellness Co. Ltd, Shanghai, China.
(3)Research and Development Center, Standard Investment (China) Ltd., 
Shanghai, China.
(#)Contributed equally

The clinical application of specialized oral nutritional supplements (ONS) in 
managing hospitalized patients with diabetes mellitus necessitates rigorous 
evaluation of their effects on glycemic stability and nutritional parameters. 
This prospective study aimed to investigate the impact of a diabetes-specific 
ONS, Complete Nutrition Diabetic Formula, on glycemic control and key 
nutritional indices in diabetic inpatients. Forty adult inpatients diagnosed 
with diabetes mellitus requiring nutritional support were enrolled and completed 
the intervention. Following assessment of individual caloric requirements, 
participants received an average daily supplementation of 156 g (equivalent to 
2.6 packs) of the Complete Nutrition Diabetic Formula over a mean duration of 29 
days (range 14-67 days). Glycemic parameters, anthropometric measurements 
(including mid-arm circumference, MAC), and pertinent biochemical markers 
(including serum magnesium) were assessed at baseline and study conclusion. 
Post-intervention analysis showed a higher total caloric and fat intake with a 
lower carbohydrate share, accompanied by significant gains in mid- arm 
circumference (MAC), serum magnesium, and a nitrogen-balance flip from -2.7 
g/day to +1.25 g/day (p < 0.05), marking a catabolic - to - anabolic shift and 
confirming protein repletion. Fasting plasma glucose and other biochemical 
indices - including serum proteins and lipid profiles - remained unchanged (p > 
0.05), indicating that short-term Complete Nutrition Diabetic Formula 
supplementation improves key nutritional indicators without compromising 
glycemic control or broader metabolic stability.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Li, Sun and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2025.1629741
PMCID: PMC12259415
PMID: 40666055

Conflict of interest statement: Authors KX and T-CL were employed by Le Bonta 
Wellness Co. Ltd. S-QS and T-CL were employed Research and Development Center, 
Standard Investment China Ltd. The remaining author declare that the research 
was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that 
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


46. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2025 Jul 1;16:1595207. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2025.1595207. eCollection 2025.

New insights of potential biomarkers in diabetic retinopathy: integrated 
multi-omic analyses.

Wang X(1), Liu W(2), Zheng X(1), Yang MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shenzhen People's Hospital (The First Affiliated 
Hospital, Southern University of Science and Technology, The Second Clinical 
Medical College, Jinan University), Shenzhen, China.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, South China Hospital, Shenzhen University, 
Shenzhen, China.

Diabetes mellitus prevalence is rising worldwide, with a predicted 20% increase 
between 2021 and 2030, bringing an increased burden of complications such as 
diabetic retinopathy (DR). DR is a common and serious ocular complication of 
diabetes, and one of the most common irreversible blinding ophthalmic diseases. 
Its pathogenesis is intricate and complex, involving hypoxia, oxidative stress, 
inflammation, abnormalities in the polyol metabolic pathway, and others. 
Clinical detection of DR is impeded by atypical early symptoms, imperfect 
imaging screening tools, ocular comorbidities (e.g., cataract), and shortages of 
human resources. Therefore, more in-depth studies are needed to improve DR 
diagnosis and identify higher-risk patients. "Omics" encompasses genomics, 
transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics. Omics technologies are 
increasingly used in research seeking to identify biomarkers or early 
preclinical signs of disease, or to better understand complex pathological 
processes determining disease prognosis. And DR is no exception, as an area in 
need of improved understanding and prognosis. To date, research has yielded 
significant results advancing DR diagnosis and treatment, informing prevention 
strategies and reducing global disease impact. This article reviewed recent 
findings of omics in DR diagnosis and treatment, improving our understanding of 
DR pathology and enabling personalized treatments.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Liu, Zheng and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2025.1595207
PMCID: PMC12259430
PMID: 40666054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


47. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2025 Jul 1;16:1599660. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2025.1599660. eCollection 2025.

Kidney transplantation with preformed diabetic nephropathy kidney: review of 
pathological changes and clinical outcomes.

Li S(1), Wang Y(2), Chen B(1), Tang M(1), Zhang K(1), Shen L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urinary Nephropathy Center, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The First Naval Hospital of Southern 
Theater Command, Zhanjiang, China.

INTRODUCTION: Kidney transplantation from expanded-criteria donors represents an 
effective approach to alleviate organ shortages. The feasibility for 
transplantation of donor kidneys with preformed diabetic nephropathy (DN) has 
not been extensively investigated.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We performed a literature review to explore the pathological 
changes and clinical outcomes of kidney transplantation using preformed DN 
kidney. A systematic and comprehensive search was conducted from the inception 
to June 13, 2024.
RESULTS: Data from eight articles encompassing 103 cases were included for 
analysis. The pooled proportions of stable, progressive, and reversed DN-related 
pathological change were 0.66 (95% CI 0.56-0.77, I2 = 21.77%), 0.27 (95% CI 
0.18-0.36, I2 = 10.04%) and 0.05 (95% CI 0.01-0.10, I2 = 0.00%), respectively. 
Eight-six cases were divided into post-transplant hyperglycemia group and normal 
post-transplant blood glucose group to evaluate the effect of post-transplant 
hyperglycemia on DN pathology, indicating the normal post-transplant blood 
glucose group had higher proportions of stable and reversed pathological states. 
Most cases achieved a graft survival rate of more than 80% at around five years 
post-transplant.
CONCLUSION: A majority of transplantations use donor kidneys with preformed DN 
exhibit acceptable renal pathological changes and graft survival. However, 
post-transplant hyperglycemia may adversely affect the pathological progression 
of the kidneys, particularly in cases with long-term follow-up.

Copyright © 2025 Li, Wang, Chen, Tang, Zhang and Shen.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2025.1599660
PMCID: PMC12259419
PMID: 40666053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict interest.


48. ACG Case Rep J. 2025 Jul 10;12(7):e01758. doi: 10.14309/crj.0000000000001758.
 eCollection 2025 Jul.

Back With Vengeance: Delayed Gastrointestinal Sequelae of Histoplasmosis in a 
Patient With STAT3 Hyper-IgE Syndrome.

Sharma D(1)(2), Turshudzhyan A(1)(2), Urban A(3), Kleiner DE(4), Heller T(1), 
Freeman AF(5).

Author information:
(1)Digestive Diseases Branch, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and 
Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, University of Maryland Medical Center, 
Baltimore, MD.
(3)Clinical Research Directorate, Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer 
Research, Frederick, MD.
(4)Laboratory of Pathology, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD.
(5)Laboratory of Clinical Immunology and Microbiology, National Institute of 
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.

DOI: 10.14309/crj.0000000000001758
PMCID: PMC12262964
PMID: 40666024


49. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Jul 1;12:1574693. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1574693. 
eCollection 2025.

Application of SGLT-2 inhibitors in non-diabetic CKD: mechanisms, efficacy, and 
safety.

Zhang B(1), Deng L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Caidian District People's Hospital, Wuhan, China.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) represents a major global public health challenge, 
significantly impacting patients' quality of life and placing a heavy burden on 
healthcare systems. While diabetes and hypertension are the primary risk factors 
for CKD, non-diabetic CKD also constitutes a significant proportion, with its 
complex pathological mechanisms necessitating the development of novel 
therapeutic strategies. Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors, 
initially developed for diabetes management, have recently demonstrated 
remarkable renal and cardiovascular protective effects in patients with 
non-diabetic CKD. SGLT-2 inhibitors exert their effects through multiple 
mechanisms, including reactivating the tubulo-glomerular feedback, reducing 
glomerular pressure and filtration rate, decreasing proteinuria, inhibiting 
inflammation and fibrosis, and improving systemic metabolic parameters such as 
lowering blood pressure, uric acid levels, and body weight. These effects not 
only slow the progression of kidney function decline but also significantly 
reduce the risk of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and cardiovascular events. 
Landmark clinical trials such as DAPA-CKD, CREDENCE, and EMPA-KIDNEY provide 
strong scientific evidence supporting the use of SGLT-2 inhibitors in 
non-diabetic CKD, demonstrating their broad clinical benefits and excellent 
safety profile. Despite potential adverse effects such as urinary tract 
infections, hypotension, and diabetic ketoacidosis, appropriate patient 
selection and personalized treatment strategies can effectively manage these 
risks. The multi-system effects of SGLT-2 inhibitors not only expand their 
clinical indications but also offer new hope for the comprehensive management of 
non-diabetic CKD patients, with significant clinical implications and broad 
future application potential.

Copyright © 2025 Zhang and Deng.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1574693
PMCID: PMC12259609
PMID: 40665981

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


50. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Jul 1;12:1580583. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1580583. 
eCollection 2025.

Artificial intelligence in ophthalmology: a bibliometric analysis of the 5-year 
trends in literature.

Peng B(1), Mu J(1), Xu F(1), Guo W(1), Sun C(1), Fan W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, China.

PURPOSE: This study aims to generate and elucidate the latest perspectives on 
the application of artificial intelligence (AI) in ophthalmology using 
bibliometric methods. By analyzing literature from the past 5 years (2020-2024), 
we seek to outline the development trends of this technology, provide guidance 
for its future directions, and assist clinicians in adapting to these 
innovations.
METHODS: We conducted a comprehensive search of all literature related to AI and 
ophthalmology in the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) using bibliometric 
methods. The collected data were analyzed and visualized using three widely 
recognized bibliometric software tools: CiteSpace, VOSviewer, and the R package 
"Bibliometrix."
RESULTS: A total of 21,725 documents were included from 134 countries and 7,126 
institutions, consisting of 19,978 articles (91.96%) and 1,714 reviews (8.04%), 
with China and the United States leading the contributions. The number of 
publications in AI and ophthalmology has increased annually, with the University 
of California System, the National University of Singapore, and the University 
of London being the primary research institutions. Ophthalmology and Proc CVPR 
IEEE are the most co-cited journals and conferences in this field. These papers 
were authored by 87,695 individuals, with Wang Y, Liu Y, and Zhang Y the most 
prolific authors. Ting DSW was the most co-cited author. Major research topics 
include using various models to scan retinal images for diagnosing conditions 
such as age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, and retinal 
nerve fiber layer thinning caused by glaucoma. The intersection of AI with other 
subfields of ophthalmology, such as in the diagnosis of ametropia, strabismus, 
eyelid disease, and orbital tumors, as well as in postoperative follow-up, is 
also rapidly developing. Key research hot spots are identified by keywords such 
as "deep learning," "machine learning," "convolutional neural network," 
"diabetic retinopathy," and "ophthalmology."
CONCLUSION: Our bibliometric analysis outlines the dynamic evolution and 
structural relationships within the AI and ophthalmology field. In contrast to 
previous studies, our research transcends individual domains to offer a more 
comprehensive insight. Notably, our analysis encompasses literature published 
beyond the year 2022, a pivotal year marking both the post-pandemic era and the 
rapid advancement of AI technologies. This temporal scope potentially fills a 
gap that prior bibliometric studies have not addressed. This information 
identifies recent research frontiers and hot spot areas, providing valuable 
reference points for scholars engaging in future AI and ophthalmology studies.

Copyright © 2025 Peng, Mu, Xu, Guo, Sun and Fan.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1580583
PMCID: PMC12259593
PMID: 40665980

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


51. Ann Med. 2025 Dec;57(1):2530694. doi: 10.1080/07853890.2025.2530694. Epub
2025  Jul 16.

Effects of combined training on quality of life in individuals with 
overweight-related type 2 diabetes: a pilot study of correlations with 
metabolic, inflammatory and thermogenic markers.

Bonfante ILP(1)(2), Vieira DB(3), Batista MO(3), Barbosa WC(3), Duft RG(1)(4), 
Mateus KCDS(1), Ramkrapes APB(1), Vasconcelos LR(1), Monfort-Pires M(5)(6)(7), 
Ramos CD(8), Velloso LA(6)(7), Chacon-Mikahil MPT(1), Cavaglieri CR(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Exercise Physiology, School of Physical Education, University 
of Campinas, Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Postdoctoral Researcher Program (PPPD), University of Campinas, Campinas, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Higher Interdisciplinary Training Program (PROFIS), University of Campinas, 
Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)The Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health, University of Aberdeen, 
Aberdeen, UK.
(5)Turku Pet Centre, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(6)Laboratory of Cell Signalling, Department of Internal Medicine, University of 
Campinas, Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.
(7)Obesity and Comorbidities Research Center, University of Campinas, Campinas, 
São Paulo, Brazil.
(8)Department of Radiology, University of Campinas, Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: There is still a lack of information regarding the impact of 
training on the domains that constitute quality of life (QoL), and the 
relationship between QoL with hormonal, inflammatory and 
pro-thermogenic/anti-inflammatory components. Thus, the present work aimed to 
evaluate the effects of combined training (CT) on the QoL of individuals with 
overweight-related type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and to correlate (baseline 
values and CT-induced delta percentage changes (Δ%)) QoL variables with 
hormonal, inflammatory, and pro-thermogenic/anti-inflammatory components.
METHODS: Middle-aged individuals of both sexes and with overweight-related T2DM 
were assigned to either the control group (CONT group) or the combined training 
group (CTG). The CT consisted of strength training followed by aerobic training 
three times/week for 16 weeks. Pre- and post-intervention assessments included 
QoL perception, clinical variables, serum biochemical markers, and brown adipose 
tissue (BAT) activity.
RESULTS: The CTG showed improvement in the perception of general QoL (20.0%) and 
in the physical (12.7%) and social (10.1%) domains. Significant positive 
correlations were observed between QoL variables with interleukin- 4 (IL-4), 
IL-10, IL-13, IL-33, Fibroblast growth factor- 21 (FGF-21), bone morphogenetic 
protein- 4 (BMP4), irisin, and BAT activity, alongside negative correlations 
with IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, c reactive protein (CRP), tumor necrosis factor-alpha 
(TNF-α) and incretin hormones at baseline and/or in the Δ% changes induced by 
training.
CONCLUSION: CT improves the perception of general QoL and the physical and 
social domains of individuals with overweight-related T2DM. Baseline and in the 
Δ% of CT change, QoL components are related with several clinical, hormonal, 
inflammatory, and pro-thermogenic/anti-inflammatory markers, besides BAT 
increased activity.

DOI: 10.1080/07853890.2025.2530694
PMID: 40665959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Circ Cardiovasc Imaging. 2025 Jul 16:e018370. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCIMAGING.125.018370. Online ahead of print.

Assessing LV Contractility Identifies Populations With Preserved Ejection 
Fraction at Risk of Adverse Heart Failure Outcomes.

Straw S(1), Brown OI(1), Cole CA(2), Lowry JE(2), Conning-Rowland M(1), 
Kamalathasan S(2), Datla S(3), Paton MF(1), Burgess R(2), Drozd M(1), Slater 
TA(1), Relton SD(4), Levelt E(1)(5), Witte KK(1), Kearney MT(1), Cubbon RM(1), 
Gierula J(1).

Author information:
(1)Leeds Institute of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine, University of 
Leeds, United Kingdom. (S.S., O.I.B., M.C.-R., M.F.P., M.D., T.A.S., E.L., 
K.K.W., M.T.K., R.M.C., J.G.).
(2)Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, United Kingdom (C.A.C., J.E.L., S.K., 
R.B.).
(3)York and Scarborough Teaching Hospitals, United Kingdom (S.D.).
(4)Leeds Institute for Data Analytics, University of Leeds, United Kingdom. 
(S.D.R.).
(5)Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, Australia (E.L.).

BACKGROUND: Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) is an essential tool for 
heart failure (HF) assessment but is limited by load dependence. Additional 
tools are needed to risk-stratify normal LVEF populations. We aimed to assess 
the prognostic value of systolic blood pressure-indexed left ventricular 
end-systolic volume ratio, or cardiac contractility index (CCI).
METHODS: In a prospective observational cohort study of people newly diagnosed 
with HF, we defined characteristics and outcomes associated with LVEF and CCI, 
including after stratification into HF with reduced ejection fraction or HF with 
preserved ejection fraction. We used UK Biobank to assess whether CCI is 
associated with subclinical myocardial dysfunction and incident HF.
RESULTS: In people with HF, mortality increased over tertiles of declining CCI 
(P<0.001). Within the HF preserved ejection fraction group, below-median CCI was 
associated with distinct clinical characteristics and an all-cause mortality 
risk approximately twice that of those with above median CCI (observed event 
rate 17.3/100 patient-years versus 8.8/100 patient-years; P<0.001), similar to 
those with HF with reduced ejection fraction. Modeled as continuous variables, 
there was a curvilinear relationship between mortality across the detected range 
of CCI, while there was no clear association with mortality risk across a wide 
range of LVEF (20%-55%). In UK Biobank for participants without HF and normal 
LVEF, below-median CCI was associated with ≈33% increased risk of incident heart 
failure (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.33 [1.01-1.75]; P=0.043). Decreasing CCI was 
also associated with lower myocardial contractility defined using global radial 
and circumferential strain.
CONCLUSIONS: CCI is a simple, noninvasive, relatively afterload-independent 
method to stratify HF risk in populations with normal LVEF. Its simplicity means 
CCI could be applied to existing clinical trial data sets or used be as an 
inclusion criterion in future randomized controlled trials.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCIMAGING.125.018370
PMID: 40665910


53. CPT Pharmacometrics Syst Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 16. doi: 10.1002/psp4.70074.
Online  ahead of print.

From In Vitro Efficacy to Long-Term HbA1c Response for GLP-1R/GlucagonR Agonism 
Using the 4GI-HbA1c Systems Model.

Bosch R(1)(2), Petrone M(3), Arends R(4), Sijbrands EJG(2), Hoefman S(1), 
Snelder N(1).

Author information:
(1)LAP&P Consultants, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Clinical Pharmacology and Safety Sciences, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, UK.
(4)AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, Maryland, USA.

For the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes, high efficacy approaches such as 
Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1)-based therapies are recommended for glucose 
control. Prediction of the clinical outcome of these therapies on glucose and 
hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), using early available pharmacokinetic and in vitro 
efficacy information, can be a valuable tool for compound selection and 
supporting drug development. Our previously developed glucose homeostasis model 
(the 4GI model) is a systems model that is able to quantify drug effects on 
glucose based on in vitro potency and PK information. In this research, the 
model was coupled to an existing integrated glucose-red blood cell-HbA1c (IGRH) 
model for predicting the effects of GLP-1 and GLP-1/glucagon (dual) receptor 
agonists, liraglutide and cotadutide, on glucose and HbA1c. The 4GI model was 
validated for predicting 24-h glucose (Cglc,av) with minimal model calibration 
using short-term Ph2a continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) data. Subsequently, 
the predicted Cglc,av served as input for the HbA1c model to assess the 
predictiveness of the combined 4GI-HbA1c model on HbA1c. The resulting combined 
model was used in cotadutide's clinical development by providing predictive 
insights into the 26 weeks glucose and HbA1c dynamics of the Ph2b study prior to 
its initiation. Retrospective analysis showed that the model adequately 
predicted the effect of cotadutide and liraglutide on fasting plasma glucose and 
HbA1c (Root Means Square Percent Error (RMSPE) 5.9% and 13%, respectively). This 
demonstrates the potential of the 4GI-HbA1c systems model as a valuable tool in 
supporting the clinical development of novel GLP-1 and/or glucagon agonists.

© 2025 The Author(s). CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology 
and Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1002/psp4.70074
PMID: 40665896


54. J Mater Chem B. 2025 Jul 16. doi: 10.1039/d5tb00836k. Online ahead of print.

Recombinant human collagen microneedle patches loaded with PRP for diabetic 
wound treatment.

Wang X(1), Zhang X(2)(3), Zhao Y(2)(3), Zhan X(2)(3), Hu C(2)(3), Li H(2)(3)(4), 
Fan X(2)(3)(4), Liang J(2)(3)(5), Chen Y(2)(3), Fan Y(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)West China Second University Hospital, Sichuan University, South Renmin Road, 
Chengdu 610041, China.
(2)National Engineering Research Center for Biomaterials, Sichuan University, 
29# Wangjiang Road, Chengdu, Sichuan 610064, China.
(3)College of Biomedical Engineering, Sichuan University, 29# Wangjiang Road, 
Chengdu, Sichuan 610064, China. yafang.chen@scu.edu.cn.
(4)Jiangsu Trautec Medical Technology Co., Ltd, 18# Jincheng Road, Changzhou, 
Jiangsu 213251, China.
(5)Sichuan Testing Center for Biomaterials and Medical Devices, Chengdu 610064, 
China.

Chronic nonhealing wounds represent significant complications of diabetes, 
bearing a substantial burden and posing risks of disability or mortality. In 
diabetic wounds, continuous tissue fluid exudation, inflammatory cell migration, 
fibrosis, and bacterial biofilm formation create a "barrier", which decreases 
the treating efficacy of therapeutics. To address these limitations, a 
recombinant human collagen type III microneedle patch (rhCol III-PRPM) loaded 
with platelet-rich plasma (PRP) was developed, in which methacrylated rhCol III 
(rhCol III-MA) loaded with PRP was utilized to form needle tips, while rhCol 
III-MA formed the base part of the patch. RhCol III-PRPM featured adequate 
mechanical qualities, swelling capacity, and sustained in vitro release of 
growth factors from the activation of PRP for over 7 days. Leveraging the 
synergistic effects of rhCol III and PRP, rhCol III-PRPM patches facilitated 
cell proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis, and reduced oxidative stress. 
In animal experiments, this microneedle patch effectively promoted the healing 
of diabetic wounds during a 20-day treatment, partially due to upregulating 
integrins and phosphorylated ERK protein levels. Diverging from other 
microneedle strategies, the rhCol III exhibited "dual functionality," serving as 
both the microneedle patch matrix and therapeutic agent, promoting wound healing 
upon patch dissolution while delivering PRP. The combination of rhCol III and 
PRP in the form of a microneedle patch offered a straightforward and efficacious 
way for effective diabetic wound management, and showed promise in bringing new 
possibilities in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1039/d5tb00836k
PMID: 40665848


55. J Diabetes Sci Technol. 2025 Jul 16:19322968251358229. doi: 
10.1177/19322968251358229. Online ahead of print.

Recycling Insulin Pens: A Call for Action!

Heinemann L(1)(2), Unsöld C(1)(3), Petry SF(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Working Group Diabetes, Environment & Climate of the German Diabetes 
Association (DDG), Berlin, Germany.
(2)Science Consulting in Diabetes GmbH, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(3)TUN Training & Beratung GmbH, Ratingen, Germany.
(4)Clinical Research Unit and Working Group Experimental Diabetology and Islet 
Cell Biology, Medical Clinic and Polyclinic III, Center of Internal Medicine, 
Justus Liebig University Giessen, Gießen, Germany.
(5)University Hospital Gießen and Marburg GmbH, Gießen, Germany.

Insulin pens are widely used by people with diabetes for insulin application. 
Most often ready-to-use pens are used; however, disposal of these pens generates 
a considerable amount of plastic waste. Until now such pens have almost always 
been disposed of with household waste. We recommend to establish a nationwide 
recycling process for insulin pens in Germany over the next few years (PenDE). 
Collecting and sorting of the finished pens have several facets, which are 
discussed in this commentary. It is primarily about recycling the actual 
product, ie, the finished pens, and not their packaging and packaging inserts. 
Such a project is only possible in close cooperation with the insulin pen 
manufacturers. The goal is to establish material cycles, ie, multiple use of 
materials such as recycled plastic.

DOI: 10.1177/19322968251358229
PMID: 40665778


56. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2025 Jul 16. doi: 10.1021/acsami.5c11275. Online 
ahead of print.

Liraglutide-Conjugated Poly(methyl vinyl ether-alt-maleic acid)-Coated 
Core-Shell Upconversion Nanoparticles for Theranostics of Diabetes.

Shapoval O(1), Engstová H(2), Šlouf M(1), Kočková O(1), Dlasková A(2), Jabůrek 
M(2), Halili A(3), Mozheitová A(2), Jirák D(3)(4)(5), Ježek P(2), Horák D(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Macromolecular Chemistry of the Czech Academy of Sciences, 
Heyrovského nám. 2, 162 00 Prague 6, Czech Republic.
(2)Institute of Physiology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Vídeňská 1083, 142 
20 Prague 4, Czech Republic.
(3)Institute for Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Vídeňská 1958/9, 140 21 
Prague 4, Czech Republic.
(4)Institute of Biophysics and Informatics, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles 
University, 121 08 Prague 1, Czech Republic.
(5)Faculty of Health Studies, Technical University of Liberec, 461 17 Liberec, 
Czech Republic.

In the diagnostics of diabetes, specific targeting of drugs (e.g., liraglutide) 
to insulin-deficient β-cells with their simultaneous noninvasive imaging is 
currently needed. In this report, liraglutide (LGL)-conjugated poly(methyl vinyl 
ether-alt-maleic acid) (PMVEMA)-coated core-shell NaYF4:Yb,Er,Fe@NaYF4:Nd 
upconversion nanoparticles (CS-UCNPs) have been developed, thoroughly 
physicochemically characterized, and evaluated in vivo. Novel codoping of Fe2+, 
Yb3+, and Er3+ ions in the host NaYF4 induced upconversion emission in the red 
region at both 980 and 808 nm excitation, making the particles suitable for 
deep-tissue imaging. Surface functionalization with PMVEMA provided colloidal 
stability and facilitated covalent conjugation with LGL, enabling targeted 
binding to GLP-1 receptors on pancreatic β-cells, increasing glucose-stimulated 
insulin secretion from isolated Langerhans islets. Biocompatibility of 
CS-UCNP@PMVEMA-LGL nanoparticles was confirmed by the trypan blue dye exclusion 
assay. When the fluorescent dye Flamma was conjugated to the nanoparticles, in 
vivo fluorescence imaging revealed significantly enhanced accumulation of 
CS-UCNP@PMVEMA-LGL-Flamma nanoparticles in the pancreas 24 h after intramuscular 
injection compared with intravenous administration, with luminescence intensity 
approximately doubled. The improved pancreatic targeting efficiency was 
attributed to enhanced binding to GLP-1 receptors. Confocal microscopy and 
elemental analysis confirmed receptor-mediated uptake of the nanoparticles by 
internalization and their localization within pancreatic β-cells. These findings 
highlight the potential of CS-UCNP@PMVEMA-LGL nanoparticles as biocompatible 
targetable imaging agents with future applications in pancreatic diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.5c11275
PMID: 40665745


57. Interv Neuroradiol. 2025 Jul 16:15910199251342841. doi: 
10.1177/15910199251342841. Online ahead of print.

Baseline predictors of poor clinical outcome despite recanalization of distal 
middle cerebral artery occlusions.

Chafai I(1), Salim H(2)(3), Musmar B(4), Adeeb N(4), Yedavalli V(2), ElNaamani 
K(5), Henninger N(6), Nedelcu S(6), Sundararajan SH(7), Kühn AL(8), Khalife 
J(9), Ghozy S(10)(11), Scarcia L(12), Tan BY(13)(14), Heit JJ(15), Regenhardt 
RW(3), Cancelliere NM(16), Bernstock JD(17), Rouchaud A(18), Fiehler J(9)(19), 
Sheth SA(20), Essibayi MA(21), Puri AS(8), Dyzmann C(22), Colasurdo M(23), 
Marnat G(24), Renieri L(25), Filipe JP(26), Harker P(27), Radu RA(28), Marotta 
TR(16), Spears J(16), Ota T(29), Mowla A(30), Jabbour P(5), Biswas A(31), 
Clarençon F(32)(33), Nguyen TN(34), Varela R(35), Baker A(21), Altschul D(21), 
Gonzalez N(36), Möhlenbruch MA(37), Costalat V(28), Gory B(38)(39), Stracke 
P(40), Aziz-Sultan MA(17), Hecker C(41), Shaikh H(9), Liebeskind DS(42), 
Pedicelli A(43), Alexandre AM(43), Tancredi I(44), Faizy TD(45), Kalsoum E(11), 
Patel AB(3), Fahed R(46), Wang M(1), Pereira VM(16), Lubicz B(1), Dmytriw 
AA(3)(16), Guenego A(1); MAD MT Investigators ##.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Neuroradiology, Erasme University 
Hospital, Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Department of Radiology, Division of Neuroradiology, Johns Hopkins Medical 
Center, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(3)Neuroendovascular Program, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
University, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery and Interventional Neuroradiology, Louisiana State 
University, Shreveport, LA, USA.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, USA.
(7)Department of Endovascular Neurosurgery and Neuroradiology, Rutgers Health 
New Jersey Medical School (NJMS), Newark, NJ, USA.
(8)Division of Neurointerventional Radiology, Department of Radiology, 
University of Massachusetts Medical Center, Worcester, MA, USA.
(9)Cooper Neurological Institute, Cooper University Hospital, Cooper Medical 
School of Rowan University, Camden, NJ, USA.
(10)Departments of Neurological Surgery & Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, 
USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(12)Department of Neuroradiology, Henri Mondor Hospital, Creteil, France.
(13)Department of Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University 
of Singapore, Singapore.
(14)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, National University Hospital, 
Singapore.
(15)Department of Interventional Neuroradiology, Stanford Medical Center, Palo 
Alto, California, USA.
(16)Neurovascular Centre, Divisions of Therapeutic Neuroradiology and 
Neurosurgery, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(17)Department of Neurosurgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(18)University Hospital of Limoges, Neuroradiology Department, Dupuytren, 
Université de Limoges, XLIM CNRS, UMR, France.
(19)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Neuroradiology, University 
Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(20)Department of Neurology, UTHealth McGovern Medical School, Houston, TX, USA.
(21)Department of Neurological Surgery and Montefiore-Einstein Cerebrovascular 
Research Lab, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 
Bronx, NY, USA.
(22)Neuroradiology Department, Sana Kliniken, Lübeck GmbH, Lübeck, Germany.
(23)Department of Interventional Radiology, Oregon Health and Science 
University, Portland, OR, USA.
(24)Interventional Neuroradiology Department, Bordeaux University Hospital, 
Bordeaux, France.
(25)Interventistica Neurovascolare, Ospedale Careggi di Firenze, Florence, 
Italy.
(26)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Neuroradiology, Centro 
Hospitalar Universitário do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(27)Department of Neurology, University of Cincinnati Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(28)Department of Neuroradiology, Gui de Chauliac Hospital, Montpellier 
University Medical Center, Montpellier, France.
(29)Department of Neurosurgery, Tokyo Metropolitan Tama Medical Center, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(30)Division of Stroke and Endovascular Neurosurgery, Department of Neurological 
Surgery, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California (USC), Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(31)Department of Neurosurgery, Westchester Medical Center at New York Medical 
College, Valhalla, NY, USA.
(32)Department of Neuroradiology, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France.
(33)GRC BioFast. Sorbonne University Paris VI, Paris, France.
(34)Departments of Radiology & Neurology, Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(35)Department of Neurology, Centro Hospitalar Universitário do Porto, Porto, 
Portugal.
(36)Department of Neurosurgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(37)Sektion Vaskuläre und Interventionelle Neuroradiologie, Universitätsklinikum 
Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
(38)Department of Interventional Neuroradiology, Nancy University Hospital, 
Nancy, France.
(39)INSERM U1254, Laboratory of Adaptive Diagnostic and Interventional Imaging 
(IADI), Université de Lorraine, Nancy, France.
(40)Department of Radiology, Interventional Neuroradiology Section, University 
Medical Center Münster, Münster, Germany.
(41)Departments of Neurology & Neurosurgery, Christian Doppler Clinic, 
Paracelsus Medical University Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria.
(42)UCLA Stroke Center and Department of Neurology Department, UCLA, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(43)UOSA Neuroradiologia Interventistica, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario 
A. Gemelli IRCCS Roma, Roma, Italy.
(44)Department of Neurology, Hôpital Civil Marie Curie, Charleroi, Belgium.
(45)Department of Radiology, Neuroendovascular Program, University Medical 
Center Münster, Münster, Germany.
(46)Department of Medicine - Division of Neurology; The Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa 
Hospital Research Institute and University of Ottawa, Ottawa-Ontario, Canada.

ObjectiveMechanical thrombectomy (MT) is well-established for the treatment of 
acute ischemic stroke (AIS) from large vessel occlusion (LVO), with growing data 
supporting the expansion to distal and medium vessel occlusions (DMVO). Despite 
successful recanalization in DMVO, certain patients still experience poor 
long-term clinical outcomes, prompting our study to comprehensively explore 
pre-MT factors influencing outcome despite excellent recanalization (final 
modified Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction [mTICI] score ≥2c).MethodsWe 
retrospectively examined data from patients who consecutively underwent MT for a 
primary middle cerebral artery (MCA) DMVO across 37 centers in North America, 
Asia, and Europe. We identified baseline clinical and imaging factors associated 
with poor clinical outcome (defined as a modified Rankin Scale [mRS] score of 
3-6) at 3 months, despite excellent recanalization using a multivariable 
model.ResultsBetween September 2017 and July 2021, 623 patients achieved 
mTICI > 2b and they were included in our study. Among them, 198 (32%) 
experienced a poor clinical outcome (mRS 3-6). Predictors of poor clinical 
outcome included higher age (OR 1.05 [1.03-1.07], p < 0.001), higher NIHSS at 
admission (OR 1.12 [1.08-1.15], p < 0.001), higher baseline mRS (OR 1.77 
[0.96-3.26], p = 0.067), and diabetes (OR 1.59 [1.01-2.48], p = 0.044). Higher 
ASPECTS was associated with a decreased risk of poor clinical outcome (OR 0.82 
[0.71-0.94], p = 0.006).ConclusionOlder age, diabetes, higher baseline mRS, and 
NIHSS were associated with poor clinical outcome in MCA DMVO despite excellent 
recanalization. Conversely, a higher ASPECTS decreased the probability of such 
an outcome.

DOI: 10.1177/15910199251342841
PMID: 40665742


58. J Complement Integr Med. 2025 Jul 16. doi: 10.1515/jcim-2024-0434. Online
ahead  of print.

A Comparative evaluation of locally delivered licorice gel and tetracycline gel 
as an adjunct to non-surgical therapy in the treatment of controlled type -2 
diabetic patients with periodontitis stage II and grade B - A split mouth 
randomized clinical trial.

Gokul MNR(1), Ramesh KSV(2), Gautami PS(2), Sruthima NVS(2), Pasupuleti M(2), 
Mathala V(2).

Author information:
(1)Vishnu Dental College, Bhimavaram, Andhra Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Periodontics and Implantology, 77203 Vishnu Dental College , 
Bhimavaram, Andhra Pradesh, India.

OBJECTIVES: Periodontitis is an inflammatory disease affecting tooth-supporting 
structures due to dysbiosis in plaque bio-film. While NSPT remains the gold 
standard treatment, it limits in its capacity to fully eradicate pathogens, 
necessitating adjunct antimicrobial therapy. Local drug delivery(LDD) offers 
targeted treatment with fewer side effects compared to systemic antimicrobial 
therapy. Recent studies highlight herbal extracts, such as licorice (Glycyrrhiza 
glabra), which exhibit antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties, making 
them promising candidates for LDD. Therefore, the goal was to evaluate the 
effectiveness of licorice gel and tetracycline gel as a non-surgical treatment 
auxiliary for individuals with stage II periodontitis and grade B type-2 
diabetes.
METHODS: In this randomized, double-blind clinical trial, 20 patients with 
Type-II diabetes were included. Following NSPT, licorice and tetracycline gel 
were applied locally as adjuncts to both the test and control groups. Clinical 
parameters such as Probing pocket depth (PPD), Clinical attachment level (CAL), 
Bleeding on probing (BOP) were evaluated at base line and 1 month and Landry's 
healing index at 7th day.
RESULTS: In intergroup analysis, licorice gel has shown statistically 
significant reduction in PPD and CAL with better healing when compared to 
tetracycline gel.However, there was no statistically significant difference 
between the groups in terms of bleeding on probing.
CONCLUSIONS: Both licorice and tetracycline gel are equally effective in 
treating pockets but licorice gel as an LDD agent has shown better and 
encouragingoutcomes in terms of healing, PPD and CAL.

© 2025 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/jcim-2024-0434
PMID: 40665717


59. Expert Rev Endocrinol Metab. 2025 Jul 15:1-11. doi: 
10.1080/17446651.2025.2532560. Online ahead of print.

Association of thyroid function within the normal range with glycemic control 
and cardiovascular risk factors in type 1 diabetes.

Lourenço M(1), Leite AR(2)(3), Ferreira P(2)(4), Meira I(2)(4), Menino J(2)(4), 
Lopes AM(1), Lagoa J(1), Viveiros B(1), Barbosa MJ(1), Santos Monteiro S(1)(2), 
Queirós J(2), Neves JS(2)(3), Neves C(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine of University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, São João Local Health 
Unit, Porto, Portugal.
(3)RISE-Health, Department of Surgery and Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(4)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine of University of Porto, Porto, 
Portugal.

BACKGROUND: Thyroid hormone (TH) variations, even within the normal range, 
influence cardiometabolic health. In type 1 diabetes (T1D), optimizing glycemic 
control and cardiovascular risk is crucial to prevent complications. We aim to 
explore the association of TH within normal range with cardiometabolic profile 
in T1D.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Cross-sectional analysis including adult patients 
with T1D followed at our Endocrinology Department between 2022-2024. We excluded 
patients with TSH or fT4 outside the reference range. Associations between TH 
(TSH, fT4, fT3 and fT3/fT4 ratio) and glycemic, anthropometric, and 
cardiometabolic parameters, were evaluated using linear regression models 
unadjusted and adjusted for relevant variables. Restricted cubic splines between 
TH and glycemic control parameters were performed to assess non-linear 
associations.
RESULTS: We included 296 patients (median age 35 years, 42.6% female). Patients 
with mid-range TSH had better glycemic control, with higher time in range and a 
lower time above range. Waist circumference and body mass index were negatively 
associated with fT4, and positively with fT3 and fT3/fT4 ratio. Estimated 
glomerular filtration rate was negatively associated with TSH and fT4, and 
positively with fT3 and fT3/fT4.
CONCLUSIONS: Variations in TH within the normal range were associated with 
glycemic control and cardiovascular risk factors in T1D.

DOI: 10.1080/17446651.2025.2532560
PMID: 40665683


60. Diabet Med. 2025 Jul 15:e70105. doi: 10.1111/dme.70105. Online ahead of
print.

Type 2 diabetes risk communication following a diagnosis of gestational diabetes 
mellitus: A qualitative study.

Caba M(1), Northern A(2), Virdee A(2), Khunti K(1)(2)(3)(4), Davies MJ(1)(2)(4), 
Hadjiconstantinou M(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Centre, College of Life Sciences, University of Leicester, 
Leicester, UK.
(2)Leicester Diabetes Centre, University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, 
Leicester, UK.
(3)NIHR Applied Research Collaboration East Midlands, Leicester, UK.
(4)NIHR Leicester Biomedical Research Centre, Leicester, UK.

BACKGROUND: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) increases women's risk of 
developing type 2 diabetes (T2DM) tenfold. Understanding of T2DM risk in women 
with GDM is variable and can impact health behaviours. To better understand how 
T2DM risk is communicated by healthcare professionals, we explored women's 
experiences of T2DM risk communication and support following a diagnosis of GDM.
METHODS: A qualitative study was conducted utilising semi-structured interviews. 
Participants were 10 women previously diagnosed with GDM. Transcripts were 
analysed following reflexive thematic analysis guidelines.
RESULTS: Three themes and four sub-themes were created to describe women's 
experiences of, and responses to, T2DM risk communication and support following 
a diagnosis of GDM. Minimal T2DM risk communication during GDM and postnatally 
was a common experience, and as a result, women forgot about their increased 
risk and felt forgotten by the health service. The lack of correspondence and 
support further fostered a dearth of knowledge and misunderstandings regarding 
what T2DM is, how it affects a person's body, and the necessity of preventative 
actions, all of which could impact women's management of their risk. Several 
strategies were suggested by women to remedy the currently absent communication 
and support. This included group education sessions, tangible and digital 
support resources, providing individualised information, and continuous and 
harmonious T2DM risk communication from healthcare professionals and health 
services.
CONCLUSIONS: Current deficiencies for communicating T2DM risk and providing 
avenues of support following a diagnosis of GDM leaves many women feeling 
under-supported. Improvements to current care are recommended to ameliorate 
this.

© 2025 The Author(s). Diabetic Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/dme.70105
PMID: 4066556461. Nephrology (Carlton). 2025 Jul;30(7):e70097. doi: 10.1111/nep.70097.

Machine Learning Models for Predicting Acute and Chronic Kidney Diseases During 
the Post-Covid-19 Pandemic.

Su CY(1)(2)(3), Hasebe M(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Quantitative Life Sciences, McGill University, Québec, Canada.
(2)McGill Genome Centre, McGill University, Québec, Canada.
(3)Canada Excellence Research Chair in Genomic Medicine, McGill University, 
Québec, Canada.
(4)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Québec, Canada.
(5)Department of Diabetes, Endocrinology and Nutrition, Kyoto University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/nep.70097
PMID: 40665552


62. Br J Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1111/bph.70140. Online ahead of print.

Combination therapy in preclinical studies and clinical trials: Evidence, gaps 
and the path ahead.

Li S(1), Dreher L(1), Danser AHJ(2), Wenzel UO(1).

Author information:
(1)III. Department of Medicine and Hamburg Center for Kidney Health (HCKH), 
University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Division of Pharmacology, Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus MC, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.70140
PMID: 40665539


63. Acta Paediatr. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1111/apa.70230. Online ahead of print.

Neonatal Outcomes Among Neonates of Women With and Without Type 1 Diabetes in 
Sweden From 2010 to 2022.

Goldberg A(1), Wiberg-Itzel E(1), Tingström J(1), Ekéus C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Science and Education, Karolinska Institutet Soder 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden.

AIM: This register-based study aimed to investigate differences in adverse 
neonatal outcomes between neonates born to mothers with and without type 1 
diabetes in Sweden.
METHODS: A nationwide cohort study was conducted using the Swedish Medical Birth 
Register, including all singleton births from 22 gestational weeks between 2010 
and 2022. The neonatal outcomes among neonates of women with and without type 1 
diabetes were studied with descriptive statistics and logistic regressions. 
Adjusted odds ratios (aORs) with 95% confidence intervals are presented.
RESULTS: The study consisted of 1 402 394 neonates, and 0.5% had a mother with 
type 1 diabetes. Neonates of mothers with type 1 diabetes had increased odds of 
stillbirth (aOR 2.54; 95% CI 1.98-3.28), congenital malformations (aOR 1.66; 95% 
CI 1.50-1.84), preterm birth (aOR 3.80; 95% CI 3.41-4.23), large for gestational 
age (aOR 22.0; 95% CI 20.9-23.1), hypoglycaemia (aOR 45.85; 95% CI 43.60-48.22), 
and neonatal death (aOR 4.1; 95% CI 3.00-5.83).
CONCLUSION: Neonates of mothers with type 1 diabetes continue to experience 
poorer neonatal outcomes, highlighting the need for more research on the causes 
and how care can be improved for their mothers during pregnancy.

© 2025 The Author(s). Acta Paediatrica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of Foundation Acta Paediatrica.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.70230
PMID: 40665497


64. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 17. doi: 10.1515/jbcpp-2025-0115. 
Online ahead of print.

Long-term retention of diabetes management skills in type 1 diabetic patients 
trained with advanced technologies.

Modestino MR(1), Verdoliva R(1), De Fortuna U(1), Ferrentino L(1), Iacono O(2), 
Memoli G(3), Nappi F(4), La Sala D(5), Ciullo I(4), Foglia A(1), Guardasole 
V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Medical Sciences, 165474 Federico II University 
Hospital , Napoli, Italy.
(2)ASL Napoli 2 Nord, Pozzuoli, Italy.
(3)Diabetology Clinic San Luca, Ariano Irpino, Italy.
(4)ASL Napoli 1 Centro, Napoli, Italy.
(5)Moscati Hospital, Endocrinology Unit, Avellino, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: The effectiveness of diabetes management depends significantly on 
patients' knowledge of key concepts such as carbohydrate counting, bolus timing, 
duration of insulin action, and the interpretation of trend arrows. This study 
aims to evaluate the understanding of these concepts among patients with type 1 
diabetes who are using advanced technologies.
METHODS: From January 2024 to July 2024, consecutive patients with type 1 
diabetes who met inclusion criteria were enrolled. Participants were asked to 
complete a questionnaire to assess their retention of key concepts for T1D 
management. Each patient completed the questionnaire independently in a private 
room before their medical appointment.
RESULTS: This study evaluated therapeutic education in adult T1D patients in 
Campania, Italy, who use advanced diabetes technologies. Despite most patients 
having long-term diabetes, significant knowledge gaps were found in diabetes 
management. Only 40 % of CGM users correctly correlated sensor data with 
capillary glucose, and 19 % erroneously believed they were identical. Just 25 % 
patients knew their insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio, and only 56 % accurately 
calculated carbohydrates. Even among users of advanced hybrid closed-loop 
systems, similar deficiencies existed.
CONCLUSIONS: Understanding of key concepts necessary for effective management of 
diabetes using advanced technologies remains insufficient in a cohort of Italian 
patients.

© 2025 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2025-0115
PMID: 40665491


65. Gen Thorac Cardiovasc Surg Cases. 2025 Jul 15;4(1):31. doi: 
10.1186/s44215-025-00216-3.

Minimally invasive video-assisted resection of a papillary fibroelastoma 
originating from the papillary muscle of the left ventricle: a case report.

Tada H(1), Handa K(2), Nakae M(1), Nakamura T(1), Miyagawa S(2), Sekiya N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Sakurabashi Watanabe Advanced 
Healthcare Hospital, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, The University of Osaka Graduate School 
of Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Sakurabashi Watanabe Advanced 
Healthcare Hospital, Osaka, Japan. sekiyan73@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Papillary fibroelastoma is a rare, benign cardiac tumor that 
typically originates from the cardiac valves, with papillary muscle involvement 
being extremely rare. However, optimal management of papillary fibroelastoma 
remains variable.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 79-year-old female with multiple comorbidities, including 
Parkinson's syndrome, diabetes, and frailty, was referred to our hospital 
because an incidental left ventricular mass was detected during a preoperative 
evaluation for knee osteoarthritis. Echocardiography and computed tomography 
revealed a mobile, 17-mm mass in the left ventricle, possibly attached to the 
posterior papillary muscle. The morphological findings were suspicious for 
papillary fibroelastoma. The tumor was surgically resected from the papillary 
muscle using a three-dimensional thoracoscopy-assisted right limited-thoracotomy 
approach. Histopathological analysis confirmed the diagnosis of papillary 
fibroelastoma. Postoperatively, the patient was discharged without 
complications, and no recurrence was observed at the 1-year follow-up.
CONCLUSION: This case demonstrates the feasibility and efficacy of minimally 
invasive video-assisted right thoracotomy for the resection of a papillary 
fibroelastoma originating from the papillary muscle.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s44215-025-00216-3
PMID: 40665460

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This work does not require ethical considerations or approval. 
Informed consent to participate in this study was obtained from the patients. 
Consent for publication: Written informed consent was obtained from the parents 
of the patient for publication of this case report and accompanying images. 
Competing interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.


66. Eur J Med Res. 2025 Jul 16;30(1):634. doi: 10.1186/s40001-025-02909-5.

Association between pressure ulcer and 28-day mortality in septic patients: a 
retrospective study based on the MIMIC-IV database.

Zhu Y(#)(1), Lei JY(#)(1), Zou J(#)(2), Liu XF(3), Li WF(4), Cao F(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency and Critical Care, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital of 
Naval Medical University, No.415 of Fengyang Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, 
200003, China.
(2)Department of Information Science and Engineering, Xinjiang College of 
Science & Technology, Xinjiang, 841000, China.
(3)Department of Emergency and Critical Care, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital of 
Naval Medical University, No.415 of Fengyang Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, 
200003, China. liuxfln@yeah.net.
(4)Department of Emergency and Critical Care, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital of 
Naval Medical University, No.415 of Fengyang Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, 
200003, China. wenfangli09@163.com.
(5)Department of Emergency and Critical Care, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital of 
Naval Medical University, No.415 of Fengyang Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, 
200003, China. 2310052731@qq.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Pressure ulcer is a significant issue that cannot be overlooked in 
septic patients. This study aims to explore the impact of pressure ulcers on the 
28 day mortality rate of septic patients.
METHODS: The data for this study were obtained from the MIMIC-IV v3.0 database. 
Univariate and multivariate analysis methods were employed to conduct an 
in-depth exploration of the 28 day mortality rate of septic patients. 
Kaplan-Meier survival curves were plotted to verify the influence of pressure 
ulcer on the 28 day mortality rate of septic patients. In addition, subgroup 
analysis was carried out to reveal the relationship between pressure ulcer and 
other confounding factors.
RESULTS: Among the 20,280 patients included in the MIMIC-IV cohort, 880 had 
pressure ulcers. Both the results of univariate and multivariate analyses showed 
that pressure ulcers were a significant influencing factor for the 28 day 
mortality rate of septic patients (p = 0.002). The survival curves indicated 
that the 28 day mortality rate of septic patients with pressure ulcers was 
significantly higher than that of septic patients without pressure ulcers. The 
Cox proportional hazards model analysis demonstrated that septic patients with 
pressure ulcers had a 28 day mortality hazard ratio of 1.30 compared with septic 
patients without pressure ulcers. The results of subgroup analysis suggested 
that more attention should be paid to the prevention of pressure ulcers in 
patients younger than 65 years old, male patients, patients with a SOFA score 
greater than 3, and patients with comorbid diabetes or renal diseases .
CONCLUSION: Pressure ulcers may independently associate with increased mortality 
in septic patients.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40001-025-02909-5
PMID: 40665447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was conducted in accordance with the declaration of 
Helsinki. Patient information within the database has been anonymized; 
therefore, informed consent was not required. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


67. Infect Agent Cancer. 2025 Jul 15;20(1):46. doi: 10.1186/s13027-025-00681-z.

Analysis of risk factors of cholangiocarcinoma, role of diabetes mellitus and 
hepatitis B virus infection in the intrahepatic and extrahepatic 
cholangiocarcinoma: a retrospective case-based study in China.

Rasadul HM(1), Kang PC(1), Li JL(1), Ma SH(1), Duan CH(1), Zhao XD(1), Cui 
YF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biliary-Pancreatical Surgery, General Surgery, The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University, Harbin, 150086, Heilongjiang 
Province, China.
(2)Department of Biliary-Pancreatical Surgery, General Surgery, The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University, Harbin, 150086, Heilongjiang 
Province, China. yfcui7@163.com.

BACKGROUND: The cause and carcinogenesis of cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) remain 
unclear. In this study, we conducted a population-based case-control study in 
China to evaluate the effects of diabetes mellitus (DM), hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
infection, and other potential risk factors for cholangiocarcinoma (CCA).
METHODS: A hospital-based, case-control study was conducted, including 245 CCA 
patients (168 with extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (eCCA) and 77 with 
intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA), diagnosed at The Second Affiliated 
Hospital of Harbin Medical University in China between January 2019 and June 
2024, along with 490 healthy controls matched in a 2:1 ratio. Conditional 
logistic regression and the synergism index were used to analyze risk factors 
for cholangiocarcinoma and their potential correlations.
RESULTS: There was an association between DM, HBV infection, cholelithiasis, 
choledocholithiasis, hepatolithiasis, and thyroid diseases were significantly 
and positively correlated with CCA, with adjusted odds ratios (AOR = 1.53; 95% 
CI = 1.26-1.85; P < 0.001), (AOR = 2.55; 95% CI = 1.25-5.20; P < 0.010), 
(AOR = 1.71; 95% CI = 1.14-2.58; P < 0.009), (AOR = 4.67; 95% CI = 1.76-12.37; 
P < 0.002), (AOR = 3.00; 95% CI = 1.24-7.25; P < 0.015), and (AOR = 5.46; 95% 
CI = 2.04-14.60; P < 0.001) respectively. A synergistic interaction between HBV 
infection and DM was investigated using an interactive bar chart. In the 
subgroup analyses, the results for eCCA included DM (AOR = 1.40; 95% 
CI = 1.10-1.78; P < 0.006), cholelithiasis (AOR = 1.60; 95% CI = 1.14-2.31; 
P < 0.013), CBD stones (AOR = 4.05; 95% CI = 1.47-11.12; P < 0.007), 
hepatolithiasis (AOR = 5.80; 95% CI = 1.50-22.40; P < 0.010), and thyroid 
diseases (AOR = 11.18; 95% CI = 2.57-48.5; P < 0.001), all of which were 
significant for eCCA. Whereas DM (AOR = 2.61; 95%CI = 1.52-4.48; P < 0.001), 
cholelithiasis (AOR = 4.34; 95%CI = 1.53-12.34; P < 0.006), hepatolithiasis 
(AOR = 3.55; 95%CI = 1.05-12.00; P < 0.042), and HBV infection (AOR = 3.55; 
95%CI = 1.55-8.15; P < 0.003) were significant risk factors for iCCA. 
Synergistic interaction between HBV infection and DM was also observed, 
resulting in a stronger association. Furthermore, a history of cholecystectomy 
(AOR = 0.39; 95%CI = (0.15-0.99); p < 0.048) demonstrates a protective function.
CONCLUSION: This Chinese study found that DM is an independent risk factor for 
CCA, particularly iCCA, and also increases the risk of eCCA. HBV infection is 
exclusively associated with iCCA, whereas choledocholithiasis, hepatolithiasis, 
and DM can cause both eCCA and iCCA. CBD stones enhance CCA risk, especially 
eCCA. By understanding this synergy, effective prevention methods for high-risk 
CCA may be established.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13027-025-00681-z
PMID: 40665446

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical statement: The protocol for this 
research project has been approved by the Ethics Committee of The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University, which approved the 
investigation. Ethics Committee approved number KY2025- 096. All the patients in 
this study signed written informed consent. Conflict of interest: All the 
authors report having no conflicts of interest for this article.


68. Br J Dermatol. 2025 Jul 16:ljaf213. doi: 10.1093/bjd/ljaf213. Online ahead of
 print.

Prurigo nodularis: disease burden, clinical features and approach to management.

Kwatra SG(1)(2), Pereira MP(3)(4), Misery L(5), Mollanazar NK(6), Shah P(7), 
Wiggins S(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(2)Maryland Itch Center, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
Maryland, USA.
(3)Institute of Allergology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, corporate 
member of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität Zu Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(4)Fraunhofer Institute for Translational Medicine and Pharmacology ITMP, 
Immunology and Allergology Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Department of Dermatology, French Expert Itch Center, University Hospital, 
Brest, France.
(6)Department of Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(7)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., Tarrytown, New York, USA.
(8)Sanofi, Reading, UK.

Prurigo nodularis (PN) is a distinct, chronic inflammatory skin disease 
characterised by intensely pruritic, fibrotic nodular lesions. Despite continued 
progress in the field, lack of clarity regarding the definition of PN as a 
disease, clinical presentation and therapeutic options results in delayed 
diagnosis and management. PN can arise following other diseases, but once 
established, it is an independent disease. Here, we summarise the current 
knowledge of epidemiology, clinical characteristics, disease burden and 
management approaches that may help healthcare providers recognise PN as a 
primary diagnosis independent of triggers or associated comorbidities. PN is 
more common among patients aged 50-60 years, and some evidence suggests it is 
more frequent among Black populations than White and Asian populations. A subset 
of PN patients have an atopic background and can present with comorbid atopic 
dermatitis; however, PN can also exist without atopic comorbidities. Other 
comorbidities typically include diabetes, obesity, thyroid disease, kidney 
disease, chronic liver disease, hypertension, HIV infection, skin infections, 
malignancies and mental health disorders. Multiple intensely pruritic lesions 
induce chronic scratching, which leads to inflammation, hyperkeratotic nodules 
and perpetuation of a vicious itch-scratch cycle. PN is associated with a high 
disease burden and negative effect on quality of life; patients often report 
intense and relentless itching, poor sleep, absence from work, anxiety and 
depression. Early diagnosis of PN and identification of comorbidities are 
important to facilitate better disease management. By increasing their awareness 
of PN epidemiology, disease burden, clinical presentation and management, 
physicians may begin to identify the disease as a distinct condition independent 
of its triggers or associated comorbidities and provide patients with 
appropriate care earlier in their treatment journeys.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British 
Association of Dermatologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bjd/ljaf213
PMID: 40665436


69. BMC Psychol. 2025 Jul 15;13(1):793. doi: 10.1186/s40359-025-03136-7.

Self-Care behaviors and their association with self-efficacy and health literacy 
among adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus in palestine: a cross-sectional 
study.

Ayed F(1), Malak MZ(2), Shehadeh A(3), Harazneh L(4).

Author information:
(1)Head Nurse PICU, Registered Nurse, Palestine Medical Complex, Ramallah, 
Palestine.
(2)Community Health Nursing, Faculty of Nursing, Al- Zaytoonah University of 
Jordan, Amman, Jordan. malakeh.m@zuj.edu.jo.
(3)American University of the Middle East, Egaila 54200,, Kuwait.
(4)Mental Health Nursing, Faculty of Nursing, Arab American University, Jenin, 
Palestine.

PURPOSE: Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is the most common endocrine disorder 
during adolescence. Self-care behaviors are the cornerstone of diabetes 
management. Effective self-care behaviors require individuals to perform a range 
of complex daily tasks, including monitoring blood glucose, adhering to dietary 
recommendations, administering insulin, and recognizing symptoms of hypo- or 
hyperglycemia. Two critical psychosocial and cognitive factors that influence 
the success of self-management are self-efficacy and health literacy. There are 
limited studies on the factors related to self-efficacy and health literacy 
associated with self-care behaviors among adolescents with T1DM in the Arab 
World, including Palestine. Therefore, this study investigated the associations 
between self-efficacy, health literacy, select demographic variables, and 
self-care behaviors among adolescents with T1DM in Palestine.
METHODS: A cross-sectional correlational design was used, and 156 adolescents 
aged 14-18 years were selected by a convenience sampling method from primary 
healthcare settings in Palestine between February and June 2024. A self-reported 
questionnaire was used to collect data, which included demographic variables, 
the Diabetic Health Literacy Scale, the Self-Efficacy for Diabetes Scale, and 
the Self-Care Inventory. Descriptive statistics, Pearson's and point biserial 
correlation tests, and multiple linear regression were used to examine the 
relationships between the study variables.
RESULTS: Participants reported high levels of self-efficacy (M = 108.80, 
SD = 14.92), low levels of health literacy (M = 2.12, SD = 0.78), and low 
engagement in self-care behaviors (M = 33.82, SD = 7.79). A positive correlation 
was found between self-efficacy and self-care behaviors (r = 0.396, p < 0.01). 
In contrast, age was negatively associated with self-care behaviors (r = -0.249, 
p < 0.01). Furthermore, self-efficacy and age were significant predictors of 
self-care behaviors (β = 0.196, p < 0.001; β = -1.256, p < 0.01, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: This study helps policymakers, healthcare providers, and parents 
develop strategies to enhance self-care behaviors through targeted interventions 
and educational programs. The findings may guide any future educational program 
or training sessions to improve self-care behaviors among adolescents with T1DM.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40359-025-03136-7
PMID: 40665435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Approval was obtained in accordance with the Declaration of 
Helsinki from the Helsinki Committee in Palestine, and the Institutional Review 
Board (IRB) at the Arab American University with reference No# R-2024/A/10/N. 
Informed consent to participate was obtained from the parents. Confidentiality 
of the data was maintained throughout data collection and analysis. Consent for 
publication: Not Applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Clinical trial: Not applicable.


70. Genome Med. 2025 Jul 15;17(1):78. doi: 10.1186/s13073-025-01508-7.

The dynamics of the gut microbiota in prediabetes during a four-year follow-up 
among European patients-an IMI-DIRECT prospective study.

Lyu L(#)(1)(2), Fan Y(#)(1), Vogt JK(#)(1)(3), Clos-Garcia M(#)(1), Bonnefond 
A(#)(4), Pedersen HK(#)(3), Dutta A(1), Koivula R(5)(6), Sharma S(7)(8), Allin 
KH(1)(9), Brorsson C(10)(11), Cederberg H(12), Chabanova E(13), De Masi 
F(10)(11), Dermitzakis E(14), Elders PJ(15), Blom MT(15), Hollander M(15), 
Eriksen R(16), Forgie I(17), Frost G(16), Giordano GN(18), Grallert H(8)(19), 
Haid M(20), Hansen TH(1)(21)(22), Jablonka B(23), Kokkola T(12), Mahajan A(24), 
Mari A(25), McDonald TJ(26)(27), Musholt PB(28), Pavo I(29), Prehn C(20), 
Ridderstråle M(30), Ruetten H(31), Hart LM'(32), Schwenk JM(33), Stankevic E(1), 
Thomsen HS(34), Vangipurapu J(12), Vestergaard H(1)(35), Viñuela A(17), Walker 
M(36), Hansen T(1), Linneberg A(9), Nielsen HB(3), Brunak S(10)(37), McCarthy 
MI(5)(24)(38), Froguel P(5)(39), Adamski J(40)(41)(42), Franks PW(18), Laakso 
M(12), Beulens JWJ(32), Pearson E(17), Pedersen O(43)(44).

Author information:
(1)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of 
Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Center for Clinical Metabolic Research, Herlev-Gentofte University Hospital, 
Hellerup, Denmark.
(3)Cmbio (Denmark), Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)INSERM UMR 1283, CNRS UMR 8199, European Genomic Institute for Diabetes 
(EGID), Institut Pasteur de Lille, University of Lille, Lille University 
Hospital, 59000, Lille, France.
(5)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism, University of 
Oxford, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(6)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.
(7)Institute of Epidemiology, Helmholtz Zentrum Munchen, German Research Center 
for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Bavaria, Germany.
(8)German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), Ingolstadter Landstr. 1, 
Neuherberg, 85764, Germany.
(9)Center for Clinical Research and Prevention, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg 
Hospital, The Capital Region, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(10)Section for Bioinformatics, Department of Health Technology, Technical 
University of Denmark, Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark.
(11)Disease Systems Biology Program, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(12)Institute of Clinical Medicine, Internal Medicine, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(13)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Copenhagen University Hospital Herlev 
Gentofte, Herlev, Denmark.
(14)Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, University of Geneva Medical 
School, Geneva, Switzerland.
(15)Department of General Practice, Amsterdam UMC- location VUmc, Amsterdam 
Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(16)Section for Nutrition Research, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(17)Population Health & Genomics, School of Medicine, University of Dundee, 
Dundee, UK.
(18)Genetic and Molecular Epidemiology Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, 
Lund University Diabetes Centre, Lund University and Helsingborg Hospital, 
Helsingborg, Sweden.
(19)Research Unit of Molecular Epidemiology, Institute of Epidemiology, 
Helmholtz Zentrum München, Neuherberg, Germany.
(20)Research Unit Molecular Endocrinology and Metabolism, Genome Analysis 
Center, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental 
Health, Ingolstädter Landstraße 1, Neuherberg, 85764, Germany.
(21)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(22)Medical Department, Zealand University Hospital, Køge, Denmark.
(23)Strategy & Innovation, Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH, Frankfurt, Germany.
(24)Wellcome Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(25)CNR Institute of Neuroscience, Padova, Italy.
(26)Institute of Clinical and Biological Sciences, University of Exeter Medical 
School, Exeter, UK.
(27)Blood Sciences, Royal Devon and Exeter NHS Foundation Trust, Exeter, UK.
(28)R&D Global Development, Translational Medicine & Clinical Pharmacology 
(TMCP), Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH, Frankfurt, Germany.
(29)Eli Lilly , Regional Operations GmbH, Vienna, Austria.
(30)Clinical Obesity, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University Diabetes 
Centre, CRC, Lund University, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(31)Boehringer Ingelheim, International GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein, Germany.
(32)Amsterdam UMC, Location VUmc, Department of Epidemiology and Data Science, 
Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(33)Affinity Proteomics, Science for Life Laboratory, School of Engineering 
Sciences in Chemistry, Biotechnology and Health, KTH - Royal Institute of 
Technology, Solna, Sweden.
(34)Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(35)Steno Diabetes Center Copenhagen, Herlev, Denmark.
(36)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Newcastle University, Newcastle, UK.
(37)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, Faculty of Health and 
Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(38)Oxford NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Oxford University Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(39)Department of Metabolism, Digestion and Reproduction, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(40)Institute of Experimental Genetics, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German 
Research Center for Environmental Health, Ingolstädter Landstraße 1, Neuherberg, 
Germany.
(41)Department of Biochemistry, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, 8 Medical Drive, Singapore, Singapore.
(42)Institute of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, 
Vrazov Trg 2, Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia.
(43)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of 
Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
oluf@sund.ku.dk.
(44)Center for Clinical Metabolic Research, Herlev-Gentofte University Hospital, 
Hellerup, Denmark. oluf@sund.ku.dk.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Previous case-control studies have reported aberrations of the gut 
microbiota in individuals with prediabetes. The primary objective of the present 
study was to explore the dynamics of the gut microbiota of individuals with 
prediabetes over 4 years with a secondary aim of relating microbiota dynamics to 
temporal changes of metabolic phenotypes.
METHODS: The study included 486 European patients with prediabetes. Gut 
microbiota profiling was conducted using shotgun metagenomic sequencing and the 
same bioinformatics pipelines at study baseline and after 4 years. The same 
phenotyping protocols and core laboratory analyses were applied at the two 
timepoints. Phenotyping included anthropometrics and measurement of fasting 
plasma glucose and insulin levels, mean plasma glucose and insulin under an oral 
glucose tolerance test (OGTT), 2-h plasma glucose after an OGTT, oral glucose 
insulin sensitivity index, Matsuda insulin sensitivity index, body mass index, 
waist circumference, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Measures of the 
dynamics of bacterial microbiota were related to concomitant changes in markers 
of host metabolism.
RESULTS: Over 4 years, significant declines in richness were observed in gut 
bacterial and viral species and microbial pathways accompanied by significant 
changes in the relative abundance and the genetic composition of multiple 
bacterial species. Additionally, bacterial-viral interactions diminished over 
time. Despite the overall reduction in bacterial richness and microbial pathway 
richness, 80 dominant core bacterial species and 78 core microbial pathways were 
identified at both timepoints in 99% of the individuals, representing a 
resilient component of the gut microbiota. Over the same period, individuals 
with prediabetes exhibited a significant increase in glycemia and insulinemia 
alongside a significant decline in insulin sensitivity. Estimates of the gut 
bacterial microbiota dynamics were significantly correlated with temporal 
impairments in host metabolic health.
CONCLUSIONS: In this 4-year prospective study of European patients with 
prediabetes, the gut microbiota exhibited major changes in taxonomic 
composition, bacterial species genetics, and microbial functional potentials, 
many of which paralleled an aggravation of host metabolism. Whether the temporal 
gut microbiota changes represent an adaptation to the progression of metabolic 
abnormalities or actively contribute to these in prediabetes cases remains 
unsettled.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The Diabetes Research on Patient Stratification (DIRECT) 
study, an exploratory observational study initiated on October 15, 2012, was 
registered on ClinicalTrials.gov under the number NCT03814915.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13073-025-01508-7
PMID: 40665409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate.: The DIRECT study (Diabetes Research on Patient Stratification) was 
registered under ClinicalTrials.gov ID NCT03814915. Approval of the study 
protocol was obtained from each of the regional research ethics review boards 
separately: Lund, Sweden: 20130312105459927; Copenhagen, Denmark: H-1–2012-166 
and H-1–2012-100; Amsterdam, the Netherlands: NL40099.029.12; Newcastle, Dundee, 
and Exeter, UK: 12/NE/0132. All participants gave written informed consent to 
participate in the study at enrollment and the research conformed to the ethical 
principles for medical research involving human participants outlined in the 
Declaration of Helsinki. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: RK has received consulting fees from Novo Nordisk; he was also funded 
by a STAR Award Novo Nordisk co-financed PhD fellowship and a Novo Nordisk 
Foundation postdoctoral fellowship (NNF18OC0031650). PWF has received research 
funding from Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Novo Nordisk A/S, Sanofi 
Aventis and Servier, received consulting fees from Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk and 
Zoe Global Ltd and has stock options in Zoe Global Ltd. HR is an employee of 
Boehringer Ingelheim and a shareholder of Sanofi Aventis. MMcC declares that the 
views expressed in this article are those of the authors and not necessarily 
those of the NHS, the NIHR, or the Department of Health; he has served on 
advisory panels for Pfizer, Novo Nordisk and Zoe Global, has received honoraria 
from Merck, Pfizer, Novo Nordisk and Eli Lilly, and research funding from 
Abbvie, Astra Zeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Merck, Novo 
Nordisk, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi Aventis, Servier, and Takeda; as of June 2019, he 
is an employee of Genentech, and a holder of Roche stock. BJ and PBM are 
employees of Sanofi Deutschland GmbH. IP is employed by Eli Lilly Regional 
Operations GmbH. HR is an employee of Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH. 
MR is employed by Novo Nordisk A/S. OP and YF are co-founders of GutCRINE. The 
remaining authors declare that they have no competing interests.


71. BMC Res Notes. 2025 Jul 15;18(1):291. doi: 10.1186/s13104-025-07374-1.

Burden level and quality of life of caregivers of hemodialysis patient's in 
central India: a mixed-method cross-sectional study.

Ramasamy S(1)(2), Rathore V(3), Agrawal V(4), Galhotra A(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health (at time of study), All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India.
(2)Vedanta Medical Research Foundation (BALCO Medical Centre), Raipur, 
Chhattisgarh, India.
(3)Department of Nephrology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Raipur, 
Chhattisgarh, India.
(4)Department of Nephrology, Dau Kalyan Singh Post Graduate Institute and 
Research center, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India.
(5)Department of Community & Family Medicine, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India. abhiruchigalhotra@aiimsraipur.edu.in.

PURPOSE: Caregivers of hemodialysis patients are at high risk of developing 
reduced quality of life (QoL) and increased caregiver burden.
AIM: This study aims to explore the level of caregiver burden and quality of 
life in caregivers of hemodialysis patients in central India.
METHODS: This cross-sectional mixed-method study was undertaken among caregivers 
of stable hemodialysis patients attending a tertiary care hospital in central 
India. The Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI) and WHOQoL BREF questionnaire measured 
caregiver burden and QoL. The qualitative data was gathered through in-depth 
interviews using a semi-structured open-ended questionnaire that delved into 
their personal experiences with caregiving. The transcripts of these interviews 
were analysed using applied thematic analysis, allowing for the identification 
and exploration of recurring themes and patterns within the data.
RESULTS: A total of 105 caregivers took part in this study, with a mean age of 
40.04 ± 12.96 years. 56 (53.3%) caregivers were female. Most (48.6%, n = 51) 
were spouses/partners. Ten caregivers (9.5%) had to change their occupations due 
to caregiving responsibilities. 14 (23.33%) had comorbidities (diabetes, 
hypertension, asthma, and arthritis) themselves. The mean caregiver burden level 
(ZBI) was 18.55 ± 7.58. Most (59.0%) experienced mild to moderate burden, while 
28.6% reported a high burden. The WHOQoL BREF mean score of various domains of 
physical health, psychological, social relationship and environmental was 
35.70 ± 12.14, 44.20 ± 13.28, 44.28 ± 15.10 and 40.07 ± 13.36 respectively. The 
thematic analysis revealed, difficulty in continuing education and employment, 
changing jobs, the need to travel long distances to reach dialysis facilities 
and hardship due to COVID-19 pandemic as recurring challenges among caregivers.
CONCLUSION: Caregivers of Hemodialysis patients had significant caregiver burden 
and poor QoL. Regular assessment and special attention are needed for these 
caregivers.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-025-07374-1
PMID: 40665407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Institutional Ethical Committee with 
IEC Proposal No: AIIMSRPR/IEC/2021/1041 from the All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India. All participants signed an informed 
written consent before participation and informed consent was obtained from 
parents and/or legal guardians of minor/illiterate study participants. The study 
was conducted under the principles of the Helsinki Declaration. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


72. Virol J. 2025 Jul 15;22(1):244. doi: 10.1186/s12985-025-02838-z.

Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) enhances translation of virus-resembling 
AU-rich host transcripts.

Kerkhofs K(1)(2), Guydosh NR(3), Bayfield MA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, York University, Toronto, ON, M3J 
1P3, Canada.
(2)Section On mRNA Regulation and Translation, Laboratory of Biochemistry & 
Genetics, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
(3)Section On mRNA Regulation and Translation, Laboratory of Biochemistry & 
Genetics, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA. 
nicholas.guydosh@nih.gov.
(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, York University, Toronto, ON, M3J 
1P3, Canada. bayfield@yorku.ca.

BACKGROUND: Viruses strongly rely on the host's translational machinery to 
produce viral proteins required for replication. However, it is unknown how 
viruses that do not globally inhibit cap-dependent translation compete with 
abundant host transcripts for ribosomes. Viral infection often triggers 
eukaryotic initiator factor 2α (eIF2α) phosphorylation, leading to global 
5'-cap-dependent translation inhibition. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) 
encodes mRNAs mimicking 5'-cap structures of host mRNAs and thus inhibition of 
cap-dependent translation initiation would likely also reduce viral translation.
METHODS: RSV-infected HEp-2 and A549 cells were analyzed to determine 
translation levels using western blotting, indirect immunofluorescent staining 
and polysome profiling. Transcriptome-wide translation efficiencies of 
virus-infected cells were compared against mock-infected cells using 
high-throughput sequencing of poly(A)-tail enriched total mRNA and transcripts 
associated with heavy polysomes.
RESULTS: We confirmed that RSV limits widespread translation initiation 
inhibition and unexpectedly found that the fraction of ribosomes within 
polysomes increases during infection, indicating higher ribosome loading on 
mRNAs during infection. High-throughput sequencing revealed that 
virus-resembling, AU-rich host transcripts become more efficient at ribosome 
recruitment. Using a previously published dataset, we observe similar trends in 
another negative-sense single-stranded RNA virus, vesicular stomatitis virus 
(VSV).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings revealed that RSV changes the translational 
landscape by enhancing translation of virus-resembling AU-rich host transcripts 
rather than inhibiting host translation.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12985-025-02838-z
PMID: 40665364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


73. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2025 Jul 15;24(1):289. doi: 10.1186/s12933-025-02824-3.

Association of temporal MASLD with type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and 
mortality.

Han E(1), Han KD(2), Lee YH(3), Kim KS(4), Hong S(5), Park JH(6), Park CY(7); 
Fatty LiverResearch Group of the Korean Diabetes Association.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Keimyung University School of Medicine, Daegu, Korea.
(2)Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, Soongsil University, Seoul, 
Korea.
(3)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University School of Medicine, Seongnam, Korea.
(5)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Hanyang Guri Hospital, Hanyang University College of Medicine, Guri, Korea.
(6)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Hanyang University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(7)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, 29 
Saemunan-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, 03181, Korea. cydoctor@skku.edu.

BACKGROUND: We investigated the risk of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and related 
comorbidities including cardiovascular disease (CVD), and mortality, based on 
changes in metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD).
METHODS: We analyzed data from the Korean National Health Insurance Service for 
individuals aged ≥ 20 years. MASLD was defined as a fatty liver index (FLI), a 
prediction formula based on metabolic parameters, with a cutoff of ≥ 60. FLI 
measurements were compared within each individual over a 2 years period. Based 
on changes in FLI between two health checkups, individuals were classified into 
four categories; never MASLD (FLI consistently < 60), incident MASLD (FLI < 60 
to ≥ 60), regressed MASLD (≥ 60 to < 60), and persistent MASLD (FLI 
consistently ≥ 60). The primary outcome was T2DM occurrence in the general 
population and myocardial infarction (MI), ischemic stroke, heart failure (HF) 
and mortality events in individuals with preexisting T2DM with adjustment for 
age, sex, smoking, alcohol drinking, and regular exercise.
RESULTS: In 4,397,808 individuals without T2DM, 229,475 (5.2%) developed T2DM 
during a median follow-up period of 7.3 years. The risk of incident T2DM was the 
highest in individuals with persistent MASLD compared to those who never had 
MASLD (HR = 5.28, 95% CI = 5.22-5.34). Individuals with incident or regressed 
MASLD also had increased risk of developing T2DM (HR = 3.30, 95% CI = 3.25-3.35 
for incident MASLD, HR = 2.87, 95% CI = 2.82-2.92 for regressed MASLD). In a 
cohort of 636,520 individuals with preexisting T2DM followed for a median of 6.2 
years, those with persistent MASLD had a higher risk of HF (HR = 1.28, 95% 
CI = 1.25 to 1.32), MI (HR = 1.15, 95% CI = 1.10 to 1.20), stroke (HR = 1.14, 
95% CI = 1.09 to 1.19) and all-cause mortality (HR = 1.11, 95% CI = 1.09-1.14) 
compared to individuals who never had MASLD. Similarly, both incident and 
regressed MASLD were associated with an increased risk for HF, MI, stroke and 
all-cause mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Persistent MASLD is associated with an increased risk of incident 
T2DM, and further elevates the risk of CVD, and mortality among individuals with 
T2DM. Even individuals with incident or regressed MASLD exhibit an increased 
risk of these adverse outcomes compared to those who never had MASLD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: N/A.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12933-025-02824-3
PMID: 40665356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: This study 
complied with the Declaration of Helsinki; the study protocol was approved by 
the institutional review board (Soongsil University, SSU-202007-HR-236-01). 
Written informed consent was waived, as this study was based on deidentified 
administrative data. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


74. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2025 Jul 15;24(1):290. doi: 10.1186/s12933-025-02843-0.

Impact of diabetes mellitus on myocardial function and clinical outcomes in 
patients with significant aortic regurgitation.

Tan Y(1)(2), Zhang Y(1), Cai Q(1), Zhao R(2), Luo W(3), Jiang J(2), Shi J(2), 
Liu T(2), Qiu L(4), Wang J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Ultrasound, West China Hospital of Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China.
(2)Department of Medical Ultrasound, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.
(3)Department of Medical Ultrasound, West China School of Public Health and West 
China, Fourth Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China.
(4)Department of Medical Ultrasound, West China Hospital of Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China. qiulihx@scu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Medical Ultrasound, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China. 
jingwang2004@hust.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) causes myocardial dysfunction and 
has been linked to an increased risk of unfavorable cardiovascular events. 
However, the additive effects of T2DM on myocardial function and its association 
with clinical outcomes in patients with aortic regurgitation (AR) is 
undetermined. The study aimed to verify whether T2DM aggravates the 
deterioration of myocardial deformation and clinical outcomes in AR patients.
METHODS: A total of two hundred and fifty-five AR patients, differentiated by 
the presence or absence of T2DM [AR(T2DM+) and AR(T2DM-), respectively], along 
with 65 age-matched healthy individuals, underwent echocardiographic 
examination. Left ventricular (LV) and left atrial (LA) geometry and function, 
as well as LV global longitudinal strain (LVGLS) and left atrial reservoir 
strain (LARS), were compared among the different groups. Linear regression 
analyses were performed to identify the effects of T2DM on LVGLS and LARS in AR 
patients. In addition, major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) were recorded during 
follow-up. Kaplan-Meier analysis and Cox proportional hazards models were used 
to explore the relationship between T2DM and the risk of MACEs in AR patients.
RESULTS: Compared with controls, both AR(T2DM-) and AR(T2DM+) patients exhibited 
significantly increased LV and LA volumes, along with reduced LV and LA ejection 
fractions (all P < 0.05). LVGLS and LARS progressively declined from the 
controls to the AR (T2DM-) group to the AR (T2DM+) group (all P < 0.05). The 
presence of T2DM was independently associated with impaired LVGLS and LARS in 
patients with AR (both P < 0.05). During a median follow-up of 29 months, 42 
MACEs were recorded. The incidence of MACEs was significantly higher in patients 
with T2DM than in those without (30.8% vs. 11.6%; χ2 = 20.10; P < 0.001). In 
multivariable analysis adjusting for clinical and echocardiographic predictors 
and aortic valve surgery as a time-dependent covariate, T2DM remained 
independently associated with MACEs (HR, 2.22; 95% CI, 1.12-4.38; P = 0.022).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with AR, T2DM exerts an additive deleterious effect on 
both LA and LV function and is an independent predictor of MACEs. These findings 
underscore the need for earlier evaluation and intervention targeting cardiac 
function in the context of AR complicated by T2DM.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12933-025-02843-0
PMID: 40665315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study was approved by the Human Subjects Review Committee at 
Wuhan Union Hospital (No. UHCT22412) and informed consent was obtained from all 
participants. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


75. BMC Oral Health. 2025 Jul 15;25(1):1166. doi: 10.1186/s12903-025-06485-2.

Non-surgical periodontal therapy with and without hyaluronic acid gel in type 2 
diabetic stage-II periodontitis patients: a randomized clinical trial.

Al-Abbadi R(1), Shemais N(2), Nawwar A(3)(4), Fawzy El-Sayed KM(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Oral Medicine & Periodontology Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo 
University, Al Saraya Str. 11, Manial, Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Oral Medicine & Periodontology Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo 
University, Al Saraya Str. 11, Manial, Cairo, Egypt. 
nesma.shemais@dentistry.cu.edu.eg.
(3)Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo 
University, Cairo, Egypt.
(4)Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology Department, School of Dentistry, New Giza 
University, Giza, Egypt.
(5)Clinic for Conservative Dentistry and Periodontology, School of Dental 
Medicine, Christian Albrechts University, Kiel, Germany.
(6)Stem Cells and Tissue Engineering Research Unit, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo 
University, Cairo, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: The present trial evaluated clinically and radiographically the 
effect of topically applied hyaluronic acid (HA) gel in conjunction with 
professional mechanical plaque removal (PMPR) in type 2 diabetic stage-II 
periodontitis patients.
METHODOLOGY: 26 controlled (HbA1c < 7%) type 2 diabetic stage-II grade B 
periodontitis patients were included in the current trial and randomly assigned 
to test (n = 13 patients; PMPR + HA) or control (n = 13; PMPR) groups. At 
baseline, three- and six-months clinical attachment level (CAL; primary 
outcome), probing pocket depth (PPD), gingival recession depth (GRD), bleeding 
on probing (BOP), O'Leary plaque index (PI), HbA1c level, radiographic bone 
density (RBD) and defect depth (DD; all secondary outcomes) were assessed.
RESULTS: Although CAL, PPD, BOP, PI, DD and RBD independently significantly 
improved in the PMPR + HA and the PMPR groups (p < 0.05), no significant 
differences were notable between both groups. HbA1c significantly decreased 
solely in the PMPR + HA group (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Type 2 diabetic patients with stage-II periodontitis, benefit 
clinically from PMPR in the presence or absence of adjunctive HA gel 
application. Interestingly, HA as an adjunct to PMPR significantly improved 
HbA1c levels in controlled type 2 diabetic stage-II periodontitis patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study was registered in the US National Institutes of 
Health Clinical Trials Registry (NCT05543434) in September 2022.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12903-025-06485-2
PMID: 40665270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: The study protocols involving human participants adhered to the 
ethical standards set by the institutional and/or national research committee 
and were conducted in accordance with the principles outlined in the 2013 
Helsinki Declaration and its subsequent revisions, or similar ethical standards. 
Both the research protocol and informed consent form were approved by the Ethics 
Committee of the Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University, Egypt in June 2022 
(IRB: 10|6|22). All participants included in the study gave written informed 
consents before their participation. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


76. BMC Endocr Disord. 2025 Jul 16;25(1):179. doi: 10.1186/s12902-025-01985-2.

The effects of non-insulin anti-diabetic medications on the diabetic 
microvascular complications: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized 
clinical trials.

Wen S(#)(1)(2), Yuan Y(#)(3), Li Y(3), Xu C(3), Chen L(3), Ren Y(3), Wang C(3), 
He Y(3), Li X(3), Gong M(3), Yuan X(3), Xu D(3), Wang C(3), Zhou L(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 201399, China. 379295093@qq.com.
(2)Fudan Zhangjiang Institute, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, Shanghai, China. 
379295093@qq.com.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 201399, China.
(4)Department of Endocrinology, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 201399, China. zhouligang1n1@163.com.
(5)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Vascular Lesions Regulation and Remodeling, 
Shanghai, 201399, China. zhouligang1n1@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Although the onset and progression of diabetic microvascular 
complications are linked to glycemic control, various antihyperglycemic drugs 
with distinct treatment targets may positively impact microvascular lesions 
beyond their glucose-lowering effects. Therefore, this systematic review 
emphasizes the clinical therapeutic implications of non-insulin anti-diabetic 
medications for diabetic microvascular complications.
METHODS: We retrieved published literature reporting randomized clinical trials 
(RCTs) on the effects of microvascular complications, including diabetic 
nephropathy (DN), diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN), and diabetic retinopathy 
(DR), from authenticated clinical databases: PubMed, Excerpta Medica database 
(EMBASE), and Web of Science. We synthesized data, including the continuous 
variable indices: estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), urinary albumin 
to creatinine ratio (UACR), and urinary albumin excretion rate (UAE). Indices 
measuring cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy (CAN), vibration detection 
threshold (VDT), and retinal nerve fiber thickness (RNFL) were used to calculate 
microvascular effects. We also synthesized dichotomous variable indices, 
including the risks for DR and DPN.
RESULTS: According to our analyses, there was sparse evidence strongly 
supporting that metformin (MET), Sulfonylurea (SUs), Repaglinide (Repa), or 
α-Glucosidase inhibitors (α-GIs) could benefit diabetic microvascular 
complications when adopted as monotherapy. Regardless of the no change in eGFR, 
two trials reporting Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) significantly reduced the UACR, 
while other clinical trials reported an increase in VDT and improvement in DR. 
Sodium glucose co-transporter inhibitors (SGLT-2i) and Glucagon-like peptide-1 
receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) both showed protective effects in preventing eGFR 
decline, with only SGLT-2i demonstrating a significant reduction in UACR. A 
recent trial showed that Dipeptidyl Peptidase IV inhibitors (DPP-IVi) may 
potentially reduce the risk of DPN, while GLP-1RA did not prove to alter the 
measures of CAN and DPN. However, the SUSTAIN 6 trial revealed that Semaglutide 
may increase the risk of DR.
CONCLUSION: Besides their anti-hyperglycemic properties, some currently reviewed 
medications may exhibit unique anti-microvascular abilities. Due to ambiguous 
and conflicting available results, more emerging or ongoing trials will address 
this issue and could benefit clinical strategies for personalized treatment 
practices.
CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER: Not applicable.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12902-025-01985-2
PMID: 40665260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


77. Ann Intensive Care. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):98. doi: 10.1186/s13613-025-01512-5.

Hyperglycemia and insulin use in patients with COVID-19 and severe hypoxemia 
allocated to 12 mg vs. 6 mg of dexamethasone: a secondary analysis of the COVID 
STEROID 2 randomized trial.

Clausen CL(1)(2), Bryrup T(3), Hansen CL(3), Faurholt-Jepsen D(3)(4), Meddis 
A(5), Almdal TP(6)(7), Snorgaard O(8), Jørgensen HL(9), Helleberg M(3), Smitt 
M(10), Warmberg CA(11), Tjelle K(12), Ulrik CS(13), Andreasen AS(14), Bestle 
M(4)(15), Poulsen L(16), Marcussen KV(17), Wiese L(18), Munch MW(19), Perner 
A(4)(19), Krogh-Madsen R(20)(21), Benfield T(20)(22)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center of Clinical Research and Disruption of Infectious Diseases (CREDID), 
Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and Hvidovre, Kettegaard Alle 30, 2650, 
Hvidovre, Denmark. Clausen.clara@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager 
and Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark. Clausen.clara@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Copenhagen University Hospital - 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(5)Department of Public Health, Section of Biostatistics, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Department of Nephrology and Endocrinology, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)Department of Immunology and Microbiology, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen,, Denmark.
(8)Department of Endocrinology, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and 
Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark.
(9)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager 
and Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark.
(10)Department of Neuroanaesthesiology, Copenhagen University Hospital - 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(11)Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care, Copenhagen University 
Hospital - Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(12)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Copenhagen University Hospital 
- Amager and Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(13)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager 
and Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(14)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Copenhagen University Hospital 
- Herlev and Gentofte, Herlev, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(15)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Copenhagen University Hospital 
- North Zealand, Hillerod, Denmark.
(16)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Zealand University Hospital, 
Køge, Denmark.
(17)Department of Anaesthesia, Zealand University Hospital, Slagelse, Denmark.
(18)Department of Infectious Diseases, Zealand University Hospital, Roskilde, 
Denmark.
(19)Department of Intensive Care, Copenhagen University Hospital - 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(20)Center of Clinical Research and Disruption of Infectious Diseases (CREDID), 
Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and Hvidovre, Kettegaard Alle 30, 2650, 
Hvidovre, Denmark.
(21)Centre for Physical Activity Research, Copenhagen University Hospital - 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(22)Department of Infectious Diseases, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager 
and Hvidovre, Hvidovre, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: While dexamethasone has been shown to improve survival in COVID-19, 
its dose-response relationship with plasma glucose (PG) levels and insulin 
requirements is poorly understood. This study investigated the impact of 12 mg 
(higher dose) versus 6 mg (standard dose) of dexamethasone on hyper- or 
hypoglycemic events and the use of insulin.
METHODS: A secondary analysis of a subpopulation of the COVID STEROID 2 trial. 
Glycemic outcomes were assessed by time-to-event analysis of a hyperglycemic 
(two PG measurements ≥ 11.1 mmol/L), severe hyperglycemic (PG > 20 mmol/L), 
hypoglycemic (< 3.8 mmol/L) event or use of insulin, adjusted for age, diabetes 
status, hospital site, and mechanical ventilation. PG levels were compared 
before and after treatment allocation with linear mixed models to estimate 
changes in average PG levels over time.
RESULTS: Of 321 participants, 170 were allocated to the higher dose and 151 to 
the standard dose of dexamethasone. Time to a hyperglycemic event did not differ 
between groups, whereas severe hyperglycemic events were more frequent in the 
higher dose group (36%) than in the standard dose group (31%) with an adjusted 
subdistributional hazard ratio of 1.76 (95% CI [1.22-2.54], p = 0.003). Insulin 
use and hypoglycemic events did not differ between groups. The higher vs. 
standard dose group had an average PG increase of 0.5 mmol/L (95% CI [- 0.2 to 
1.4], p = 0.149).
CONCLUSION: Higher vs. standard doses of dexamethasone were associated with a 
higher incidence of severe hyperglycemia in patients with COVID-19 and severe 
hypoxemia, but the average increase in PG was similar between groups.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13613-025-01512-5
PMID: 40665171

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The COVID STEROID 2 trial was approved by the Scientific Ethics 
Committee of the Capital Region of Denmark (H-20051056) and registered at 
ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04509973) and ctri.nic.in (CTRI/2020/10/028731) on August 
11th, 2020. The secondary analysis was approved according to Danish Healthcare 
Law § 46, Sect. 2 by the Capital Region (R-24013197). Consent for publication: 
Not applicable. Competing interests: T.B. reports grants from Novo Nordisk 
Foundation, Lundbeck Foundation, Simonsen Foundation, GSK, and Pfizer; personal 
fees from GSK, Pfizer, Bavarian Nordic, Gilead, MSD, Janssen, Moderna and Astra 
Zeneca; outside the submitted work. TPA holds stocks in Novo Nordisk A/S; 
outside the submitted work. No other disclosures were reported.


78. J Nephrol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s40620-025-02357-8. Online ahead of
print.

Long-term prediction of mortality by heart rate turbulence in hemodialysis 
patients and the impact of diabetes mellitus-a longitudinal observational study.

Hannane N(1), Mayer CC(2), Matschkal J(1), Bormann F(3), Krieter A(4), Braun 
JR(5), Küchle C(1), Renders L(1), Günthner R(1), Schmidt G(6), Müller A(6), 
Wassertheurer S(2), Heemann U(1), Haller B(7), Malik M(8)(9), Schmaderer 
C(#)(1), Braunisch MC(#)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, TUM School of Medicine and Health, TUM 
Universitätsklinikum, Klinikum Rechts Der Isar, Technical University of Munich, 
Ismaninger Str 22, 81675, Munich, Germany.
(2)Center for Health & Bioresources, Medical Signal Analysis, AIT Austrian 
Institute of Technology GmbH, Vienna, Austria.
(3)Dialysis Center Munich Nord, Munich, Germany.
(4)Nephrocare Munich East, Munich, Germany.
(5)Praxen Dr. Braun, Dialysis Center, Dingolfing, Germany.
(6)Klinik Für Innere Medizin I, TUM School of Medicine and Health, TUM 
Universitätsklinikum, Klinikum Rechts Der Isar, Technical University of Munich, 
Munich, Germany.
(7)TUM School of Medicine and Health, TUM Universitätsklinikum, Klinikum Rechts 
Der Isar, Institute of AI and Informatics in Medicine, Technical University of 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(8)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(9)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine and Cardiology, Masaryk 
University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(10)Department of Nephrology, TUM School of Medicine and Health, TUM 
Universitätsklinikum, Klinikum Rechts Der Isar, Technical University of Munich, 
Ismaninger Str 22, 81675, Munich, Germany. Matthias.Braunisch@mri.tum.de.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Diabetes-driven impaired autonomic nervous system function might 
contribute to increased mortality in hemodialysis patients. Our study aimed to 
validate heart rate turbulence as a long-term predictor of mortality in this 
vulnerable cohort.
METHODS: Heart rate turbulence is a non-invasive, 24 h 
electrocardiography-Holter-based assessment of cardiovascular autonomic 
responses. Hemodialysis patients of the "rISk strAtification in end-stage Renal 
disease" (ISAR) study, a prospective, multicenter observational study, were 
followed up for six years. Mortality hazard, and correlations between 
clinical characteristics and mortality, were assessed using Cox regression 
models.
RESULTS: Heart rate turbulence measurement at baseline was available in 290 
hemodialysis patients, 99 (34%) with diabetes mellitus. In a multivariable 
analysis, abnormal heart rate turbulence was associated with a 2.1-fold (95% CI: 
1.4-3.2; p < 0.001) increased risk for all-cause and 3.1-fold (95% CI: 1.5-6.2; 
p = 0.001) increased risk for cardiovascular mortality. The co-occurrence of 
abnormal heart rate turbulence and diabetes mellitus represented the strongest 
risk constellation, increasing all-cause mortality risk to a hazard ratio of 5.8 
(95% CI: 3.3-10.4; p < 0.001) and cardiovascular mortality risk to 6.1 (95% CI: 
2.5-15.1; p < 0.001). This association with mortality risk remained significant 
after multivariate adjustment. The interaction term between the two 
comorbidities indicated an approximately additive effect on mortality risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Heart rate turbulence significantly contributed to the prediction 
of long-term mortality risk in hemodialysis patients. Diabetes mellitus is a 
major driver of cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction, which plays a crucial role 
in mortality among dialysis patients. Heart rate turbulence measurement 
identifies high-risk patients in the dialysis setting, enhancing precision in 
risk prediction and stratification, and allowing an opportunity for personalized 
monitoring and prevention.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40620-025-02357-8
PMID: 40665145

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest. MB reports travel support from Lilly Germany 
and consulting fees from Samsung Bioepis, Takeda Pharma, and Boehringer 
Ingelheim unrelated to the project. Ethical approval: This prospective 
longitudinal clinical study was reviewed and approved by the Medical Ethics 
Committee of the Klinikum Rechts der Isar of the Technical University of Munich 
and the Bavarian State Board of Physicians. The study was performed in 
accordance with the ethical standards as laid down in the 1964 Declaration of 
Helsinki and its later amendments. Informed consent to participate: All 
patients/participants provided written informed consent to participate in this 
study.


79. Eur Geriatr Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s41999-025-01266-0. Online ahead
of  print.

Lifestyle interventions and medication burden in older adults: insights from the 
Lifestyle Intervention and Independence for Elders (LIFE) and the Sarcopenia and 
Physical fRailty iN older people: multi-componenT Treatment strategies (SPRINTT) 
trials.

Levati E(1)(2), Zazzara MB(3)(4), Iurlaro A(1), Marzetti E(1)(2), Calvani R(2), 
Pahor M(5), Picca A(2)(6), Tosato M(2), Landi F(1)(2), Bernabei R(7), Onder 
G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging, Orthopaedics and Rheumatological Sciences, Università 
Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, 00168, Rome, Italy.
(2)Fondazione Policlinico Universitario "Agostino Gemelli" IRCCS, Largo 
Francesco Vito 1, 00168, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Aging, Orthopaedics and Rheumatological Sciences, Università 
Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, 00168, Rome, Italy. 
mariabeatrice.zazzara@policlinicogemelli.it.
(4)Fondazione Policlinico Universitario "Agostino Gemelli" IRCCS, Largo 
Francesco Vito 1, 00168, Rome, Italy. 
mariabeatrice.zazzara@policlinicogemelli.it.
(5)Principal Investigator of the LIFE Study, Independent Scholar, Miami, FL, 
USA.
(6)Department of Medicine and Surgery, LUM University, Casamassima, Italy.
(7)Italialongeva, Rome, Italy.

PURPOSE: Polypharmacy is a growing public health problem and implementing 
strategies to reduce its prevalence is considered a research and clinical 
priority. Healthy lifestyle impacts the onset and progression of chronic 
conditions. Yet, there is limited understanding of how this effect influences 
medication use. The aim of the study was to assess the impact of lifestyle 
interventions on use of medications for treatment of common chronic conditions.
METHODS: We performed a secondary analyses from two randomized clinical trials: 
the Lifestyle Interventions and Independence for Elders Study (LIFE) and the 
Sarcopenia and Physical fRailty IN older people: multi-componenT Treatment 
strategies (SPRINTT) trials. LIFE study enrolled community-dwelling men and 
women aged 70 to 89 years old who were physically inactive and had reduced 
physical function recruited in eight centers in the United States. SPRINTT 
enrolled community-dwelling men and women aged 70 years or older with physical 
frailty and sarcopenia recruited in 16 clinical sites in Europe. Active 
intervention groups consisted of a physical activity program in LIFE and a 
multicomponent intervention based on physical activity with technological 
support and nutritional counselling/dietary intervention in SPRINTT. The main 
outcome measure was the change in cardiovascular, diabetes, mood and anxiety, 
and chronic pain medication use as measured by daily dose per day (DDD/day).
RESULTS: A total of 1519 LIFE participants (752 intervention vs 767 control 
group, mean age 78.9 years; 67.3% women) and 1,208 SPRINTT participants (602 
intervention vs 606 control group, mean age 78.8 years; 72.8% women) were 
evaluated. For both studies, no significant difference was observed in the 
median number of DDDs at baseline and follow-up assessments for any of the 
medication classes considered. Longitudinal analysis performed using linear 
mixed models revealed no significant association between DDDs/day and lifestyle 
interventions, with the only exception of an increase in DDD/day of pain 
medications in the intervention group of SPRINTT (β = 0.16; CI 0.06-0.26 at 
6 months; β = 0.12; CI 0.01-0.22 at 12 months; β = 0.12; CI 0.01-0.22 at 
18 months).
CONCLUSION: Lifestyle interventions did not significantly impact on burden of 
medications used to treat chronic conditions in frail older adults. This finding 
does not undermine the beneficial effects of these interventions on health 
outcomes, but highlights the need for specifically designed trials to determine 
their effect on reducing polypharmacy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01072500 (LIFE) and NCT02582138 
(SPRINTT).

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to European Geriatric Medicine 
Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s41999-025-01266-0
PMID: 40665144

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest. Ethical approval: LIFE and 
SPRINTT were approved by ethics committees. Informed consent: All participants 
provided a written informed consent prior to enrolment.


80. Diabetologia. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s00125-025-06487-3. Online ahead of 
print.

Societal and biological approaches to diabetes prevention and care for Inuit 
populations: a narrative review.

Nielsen H(1)(2)(3), Lajeunesse-Trempe F(4)(5), Lin AL(6), Nielsen MH(7)(8), 
Hoffmeyer B(7)(8), Larsen TLJ(7), Ayotte P(9), Narayanan ML(6), Thuesen ACB(10), 
Hansen T(10), Pedersen ML(7)(8), Jørgensen ME(7)(8)(11), Byberg S(7)(12).

Author information:
(1)Steno Diabetes Center Greenland, Nuuk, Greenland. hieh@peqqik.gl.
(2)Greenland Center for Health Research, Department of Health and Nature, 
Ilisimatusarfik/University of Greenland, Nuuk, Greenland. hieh@peqqik.gl.
(3)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
hieh@peqqik.gl.
(4)Institut Universitaire de Cardiologie et de Pneumologie de Québec, Université 
Laval, Québec, QC, Canada.
(5)Faculté de Pharmacie, Université Laval, Québec, QC, Canada.
(6)Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium Diabetes Program, Alaska Native Tribal 
Health Consortium, Anchorage, AK, USA.
(7)Steno Diabetes Center Greenland, Nuuk, Greenland.
(8)Greenland Center for Health Research, Department of Health and Nature, 
Ilisimatusarfik/University of Greenland, Nuuk, Greenland.
(9)Axe Santé des Populations et Pratiques Optimales en Santé, Centre de 
Recherche du CHU de Québec-Université Laval, Québec, QC, Canada.
(10)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of 
Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(11)National Institute of Public Health, Southern Denmark University, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(12)Clinical and Translational Research, Steno Diabetes Center Copenhagen, 
Herlev, Denmark.

The Inuit populations that inhabit the Arctic regions have adapted to survive in 
extreme conditions. However, recent societal changes and colonisation have led 
to rapid shifts in diet and physical activity, increasing the burden of chronic 
diseases, especially diabetes, in these regions. In addition, modern-day Inuit 
face significant challenges in accessing diabetes care and prevention and 
awareness programmes because of geographical isolation and fragmented healthcare 
services. This narrative review describes diabetes epidemiology in Inuit 
populations living in Canada, Alaska and Greenland and their genetic 
architecture, as well as the organisation of healthcare related to diabetes and 
interventions aimed at creating awareness and preventing the onset and 
complications of diabetes in these regions. Despite their shared genetic 
architecture, differences are observed across Inuit populations in Canada, 
Alaska and Greenland in diabetes prevalence and healthcare interventions, and 
especially in the organisation of diabetes healthcare. This narrative review 
highlights the importance of culturally sensitive healthcare interventions and 
comprehensive research and data collection that address the specific health 
needs of the Inuit. Integrating traditional knowledge with modern medical 
practices is essential for the development of effective, sustainable strategies 
for diabetes prevention and care for the Inuit living in the circumpolar Arctic 
regions.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-025-06487-3
PMID: 40665130

Conflict of interest statement: Funding: MLN is funded by the Special Diabetes 
Program for Indians. ACBT is funded by the BRIDGE – Translational Excellence 
Programme ( https://bridge.ku.dk ) at the Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, funded by the Novo Nordisk Foundation 
(NNF20SA0064340). The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic 
Research is supported by an unrestricted grant from the Novo Nordisk Foundation 
(NNF23SA0084103). The funders had no role in any part of this review. Authors’ 
relationships and activities: HN, MHN, BH, TLJL and MLP are employed at Steno 
Diabetes Center Greenland (SDCG), a public hospital and research institution, 
partly funded by a grant from the Novo Nordisk Foundation (NNF20SA0064190). A-LL 
serves as a consultant for The Hill Group with contracted clients including the 
Division of Diabetes Treatment and Prevention and Indian Health Services. MEJ 
and SB own shares in Novo Nordisk A/S and are employed at SDCG and/or Steno 
Diabetes Center Copenhagen. TH owns stocks in Novo Nordisk and has received 
research support from Novo Nordisk and GSK. The authors declare that there are 
no other relationships or activities that might bias, or be perceived to bias, 
their work. Contribution statement: All authors took part in writing the 
manuscript, HN and SB wrote the subsequent drafts of the manuscript, and all 
authors critically revised the manuscript and approved the final manuscript for 
publication.


81. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25570. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-09150-4.

Association between neighborhood deprivation and type 2 diabetes risks among 
asthma patients: a nationwide population-based cohort study.

Wang Y(1)(2)(3)(4), Zhang Y(1)(2), Sundquist K(3)(4)(5)(6), Sundquist 
J(3)(4)(5)(6), Yang H(1)(2), Li X(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Environmental Factors and Chronic Disease Control, Ningxia 
Medical University, Yinchuan, China.
(3)Center for Primary Health Care Research, Department of Clinical Sciences, 
Lund University, Jan Waldenströms gata 35, 20502, Malmö, Sweden.
(4)University Clinic Primary Care, Skåne University Hospital, Region Skåne, 
Sweden.
(5)Departments of Family and Community Medicine and of Epidemiology, The 
University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(6)Center for Community-based Healthcare Research and Education (CoHRE), 
Department of Functional Pathology, School of Medicine, Matsue, Shimane 
University, Matsue, Japan.
(7)Center for Primary Health Care Research, Department of Clinical Sciences, 
Lund University, Jan Waldenströms gata 35, 20502, Malmö, Sweden. 
xinjun.li@med.lu.se.
(8)University Clinic Primary Care, Skåne University Hospital, Region Skåne, 
Sweden. xinjun.li@med.lu.se.

This study aimed to investigate the potential impact of neighborhood deprivation 
on the incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) among individuals with 
asthma. This nationwide, open cohort study conducted in Sweden from 1997 to 2018 
included asthma patients of all ages (n = 1,051,240) to assess their subsequent 
risk of developing T2DM. The study compared asthma patients residing in highly 
deprived neighborhoods with those living in moderately or less deprived areas 
(reference group). Cox proportional hazards regression models were employed to 
analyze the association between neighborhood deprivation and T2DM incidence, 
with results expressed as hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% 
CIs). Analyses were stratified by sex and adjusted for potential confounders. A 
significant association between neighborhood deprivation and T2DM risk in asthma 
patients was shown. These associations remained statistically significant after 
adjusting for confounders, with adjusted HRs of 1.44 (95% CI 1.38-1.50) for men 
and 1.51 (95% CI 1.46-1.57) for women. Furthermore, a graded relationship was 
observed, with higher levels of neighborhood deprivation associated with an 
increased incidence of T2DM among asthma patients. These findings underscore 
critical clinical and public health concerns. The results of this study provide 
valuable insights for policymakers, highlighting the need to consider 
neighborhood deprivation when allocating resources in primary healthcare 
settings. They also offer guidance for optimizing clinical care strategies for 
patients in socioeconomically disadvantaged communities.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-09150-4
PMID: 40665105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval: This study was approved by the 
regional ethical review board in Lund, Sweden on Feb. 6th, 2013 (registration No 
2012/795) and later amendments. Guidelines of the Helsinki Declaration were 
followed. Data were obtained from the national registers collected by various 
Swedish health and social agencies. The agency Statistics Sweden linked the 
(pseudonymised) unique personal identification number assigned to all Swedish 
residents at birth or migration. Informed consent: Informed consent was not 
applicable, as the study was based on secondary pseudonymized data from 
registers.


82. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25510. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-09942-8.

Unraveling the role of shrimp hydrolysate as a food supplement in the immune 
function and fecal microbiota of beagle dogs.

Guilherme-Fernandes J(1), Barroso C(1), Correia A(2)(3), Aires T(4), Yergaliyev 
T(5)(6), Camarinha-Silva A(5)(6), Vilanova M(2)(3), Fonseca AJM(1), Lima SAC(1), 
Maia MRG(1)(7), Cabrita ARJ(8).

Author information:
(1)REQUIMTE, LAQV, ICBAS, School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, University 
of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(2)i3S, Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(3)ICBAS, School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, University of Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(4)SORGAL, Sociedade de Óleos e Rações S.A., S. João Ovar, Portugal.
(5)Hohenheim Center for Livestock Microbiome Research, HoLMiR, University of 
Hohenheim, Stuttgart, Germany.
(6)Institute of Animal Science, University of Hohenheim, Stuttgart, Germany.
(7)LEAF - Linking Landscape, Environment, Agriculture and Food Research Center, 
Associated Laboratory TERRA, Instituto Superior de Agronomia, Universidade de 
Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal.
(8)REQUIMTE, LAQV, ICBAS, School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, University 
of Porto, Porto, Portugal. arcabrita@icbas.up.pt.

The inclusion of protein hydrolysates from animal by-products in petfood may 
enhance the industry's sustainability, while contributing to dogs' health due to 
their nutritional and functional properties. However, inconsistent results of 
protein hydrolysates on gut microbiota, immune responses, among other health 
parameters, have been observed in dogs. This study aimed to evaluate the effects 
of diets supplemented with 5% shrimp hydrolysate, compared to non-supplemented 
diets, on hematological parameters, serum chemistry profile, innate and adaptive 
immune function, and fecal microbiota composition in adult Beagle dogs during a 
12-week feeding trial. Dietary inclusion of shrimp hydrolysate decreased blood 
eosinophils (P = 0.017) and glucose levels (P = 0.023), while increasing levels 
of white blood cells (P = 0.002), platelets (P = 0.038), neutrophils 
(P = 0.036), and CD4+ (P < 0.001) and CD8+ T cells (P < 0.001) single producers 
of tumor necrosis factor-alpha. It also led to a more extensive proliferation of 
CD4+ T cells in response to LipL32 antigen (P = 0.020) and to a decrease in 
superoxide production in stimulated cells (P = 0.002). Additionally, 
supplemented diets increased Oscillospiraceae (P-adj = 0.005) and Clostridia 
(P-adj = 0.017) abundance, and decreased such of Sellimonas (P-adj = 0.025). 
Overall, the results indicate that diet supplementation with shrimp hydrolysate 
at 5% modulates the immune response and fecal microbiota, highlighting its 
potential to be included in hypoallergenic and gastrointestinal diets, and in 
diets for diabetic dogs.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-09942-8
PMID: 40665094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: PhD 
scholarship of JG-F was partially funded by Soja de Portugal. TA is employed by 
SORGAL, Sociedade de Óleos e Rações S.A. The other authors declare no potential 
conflict of interest.


83. Lung. 2025 Jul 15;203(1):80. doi: 10.1007/s00408-025-00834-2.

From Glucotoxicity to Lung Injury: Emerging Perspectives on Diabetes-Associated 
Respiratory Complications.

Yu H(1), Liu J(2), He X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, No.1 Youyi Road, Yuzhong, Chongqing, 400016, China. yhm920@126.com.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, No.1 Youyi Road, Yuzhong, Chongqing, 400016, China.

Emerging evidence highlights glucose toxicity as a pivotal driver of diabetic 
respiratory complications, characterized by hyperglycemia-induced metabolic 
dysregulation and multi-organ damage. The lung, a metabolically active organ, 
exhibits unique susceptibility to glucose toxicity due to its exposure to 
oxidative stress, inflammatory cascades, and disrupted metabolic reprogramming, 
particularly in glycolysis and mitochondrial dysfunction. Diabetes-associated 
respiratory complications encompass increased susceptibility to respiratory 
infections, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) with macrophage-driven 
glycolytic shifts, and gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM)-associated fetal lung 
dysplasia via impaired epithelial differentiation. Future research should 
prioritize metabolic dysregulation-targeted therapies, gut-lung axis modulation, 
and personalized approaches to address the interplay between hyperglycemia, 
oxidative stress, and immune dysregulation. Elucidating genetic and epigenetic 
modifiers of glucotoxicity will further advance therapeutic strategies for 
diabetes-associated pneumopathy. This review provides an overview of 
epidemiological burden, lung structural and functional changes, 
pathophysiological mechanisms, clinical outcomes and complications, therapeutic 
and preventive strategies, unanswered questions, and future directions of 
diabetes-associated respiratory complications.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00408-025-00834-2
PMID: 40665066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. 
Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: The authors 
consent to publication. Clinical Trial Number: Not applicable.


84. Nat Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03790-9. Online ahead of print.

Deep phenotyping of health-disease continuum in the Human Phenotype Project.

Reicher L(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Shilo S(#)(1)(2)(4)(5), Godneva A(1)(2), Lutsker 
G(1)(2), Zahavi L(1)(2), Shoer S(1)(2), Krongauz D(1)(2), Rein M(1)(2), Kohn 
S(1)(2), Segev T(1)(2), Schlesinger Y(1)(2), Barak D(1)(2), Levine Z(1)(2), 
Keshet A(1)(2), Shaulitch R(2), Lotan-Pompan M(1)(2), Elkan M(6), Talmor-Barkan 
Y(4)(7), Aviv Y(4)(7), Dadiani M(8), Tsodyks Y(8), Gal-Yam EN(9), Leibovitzh 
H(10), Werner L(10), Tzadok R(10), Maharshak N(10), Koga S(11), Glick-Gorman 
Y(12), Stossel C(12), Raitses-Gurevich M(12), Golan T(4)(12), Dhir R(13), 
Reisner Y(1)(14), Weinberger A(1)(2), Rossman H(14)(15), Song L(15)(16), Xing 
EP(17)(18), Segal E(19)(20).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovot, Israel.
(2)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, 
Israel.
(3)Lis Maternity and Women's Hospital, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel 
Aviv, Israel.
(4)Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, 
Israel.
(5)The Jesse Z and Sara Lea Shafer Institute for Endocrinology and Diabetes, 
National Center for Childhood Diabetes, Schneider Children's Medical Center of 
Israel, Petah Tikva, Israel.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine A, Shamir Medical Center (Assaf Harofeh), 
Zerifin, Israel.
(7)Department of Cardiology, Rabin Medical Center, Petah-Tikva, Israel.
(8)Cancer Research Center, Sheba Medical Center, Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(9)Institute of Breast Oncology, the Jusidman Cancer Center, Sheba Medical 
Center, Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(10)The Department of Gastroenterology and Liver Disease, Tel Aviv Medical 
Center, affiliated to the Grey Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine, SBS Shizuoka Health Promotion Center, 
Shizuoka, Japan.
(12)The Jusidman Cancer Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
(13)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland.
(14)Pheno.AI, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
(15)Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence, Abu Dhabi, UAE.
(16)GenBio AI, Palo Alto, CA, USA.
(17)Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence, Abu Dhabi, UAE. 
Eric.Xing@mbzuai.ac.ae.
(18)Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. 
Eric.Xing@mbzuai.ac.ae.
(19)Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute 
of Science, Rehovot, Israel. eran.segal@weizmann.ac.il.
(20)Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence, Abu Dhabi, UAE. 
eran.segal@weizmann.ac.il.
(#)Contributed equally

The Human Phenotype Project (HPP) is a large-scale deep-phenotype prospective 
cohort. To date, approximately 28,000 participants have enrolled, with more than 
13,000 completing their initial visit. The project is aimed at identifying novel 
molecular signatures with diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic value, and at 
developing artificial intelligence (AI)-based predictive models for disease 
onset and progression. The HPP includes longitudinal profiling encompassing 
medical history, lifestyle and nutrition, anthropometrics, blood tests, 
continuous glucose and sleep monitoring, imaging and multi-omics data, including 
genetics, transcriptomics, microbiome (gut, vaginal and oral), metabolomics and 
immune profiling. Analysis of these data highlights the variation of phenotypes 
with age and ethnicity and unravels molecular signatures of disease by 
comparison with matched healthy controls. Leveraging extensive dietary and 
lifestyle data, we identify associations between lifestyle factors and health 
outcomes. Finally, we present a multi-modal foundation AI model, trained using 
self-supervised learning on diet and continuous-glucose-monitoring data, that 
outperforms existing methods in predicting disease onset. This framework can be 
extended to integrate other modalities and act as a personalized digital twin. 
In summary, we present a deeply phenotyped cohort that serves as a platform for 
advancing biomarker discovery, enabling the development of multi-modal AI models 
and personalized medicine approaches.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03790-9
PMID: 40665053

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Y.R., H.R. and Y.T.B are 
employees at Pheno.AI. A.K., A.W. and E.S. are paid consultants of Pheno.AI. 
N.M. has received speaking and consulting fees from Pfizer, Abbvie, Lilly, 
Takeda, Janssen, Ferring, BiomX, BMS, Nestle and Teva and grant support from 
Takeda, Janssen, Abbott, Abbvie, Pfizer, BMS, Corundum Innovation, Nestle and 
the Helmsely Charitable Trust. The other authors declare no competing interests.


85. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25487. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-11017-7.

Prevalence and risk factors of hypertensive retinopathy in South Korea based on 
national health survey data.

Park SH(1), Nam D(2), Choi JY(3), Yoo TK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hangil Eye Hospital, 35 Bupyeong-daero, 
Bupyeong-gu, Incheon, 21388, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Graduate School, College of Medicine, Yonsei 
University, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Yonsei University, Wonju, South Korea.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Hangil Eye Hospital, 35 Bupyeong-daero, 
Bupyeong-gu, Incheon, 21388, Republic of Korea. fawoo2@yonsei.ac.kr.

This study investigated the prevalence and risk factors of moderate to severe 
hypertensive retinopathy among non-diabetic South Korean adults using data from 
the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHANES) 2008-2011. 
Hypertensive retinopathy was defined through standardized retinal image grading. 
A multivariable logistic regression model was developed using weighted analysis 
and predictor selection based on pathophysiological relevance and 
multicollinearity diagnostics. Final model features included age, systolic blood 
pressure, HbA1c, total cholesterol, creatinine, and hemoglobin. Among 5,075 
participants, the weighted prevalence of moderate to severe hypertensive 
retinopathy was 0.8%. The prevalence rate increased with higher systolic blood 
pressure levels. The model demonstrated moderate discrimination, with an average 
area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.721 in 5-fold 
cross-validation and 0.679 in external validation using the KNHANES 2012 
dataset. External validation was performed using averaged predictions from the 
five internally validated models. The relatively low prevalence of hypertensive 
retinopathy compared to Western populations may reflect differences in 
hypertension control, lifestyle, or genetic susceptibility. Future research 
should explore retinal image analysis and longitudinal datasets to enhance early 
detection and clarify the systemic implications of hypertensive retinopathy.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-11017-7
PMID: 40664953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: T K Yoo is an 
advisory board member of MediWhale and has received consultant fees as part of 
the standard compensation package. The remaining authors declare no conflicts of 
interest. Ethics approval and consent to participate: This study was conducted 
using anonymized data from the publicly available KNHANES dataset, which was 
approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of the Korea Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (IRB numbers: 2008-04EXP-01-C, 2009-01CON-03–2 C, 
2010-02CON-21-C, 2011-02-CON-06-C, and 2012-01-EXP-01–2 C). Written informed 
consent was obtained from all participants prior to their inclusion in the 
survey. As the study exclusively utilized publicly available data, additional 
IRB approval was not required. The study complied with the principles outlined 
in the Declaration of Helsinki, ensuring ethical standards were maintained 
throughout. Consent for publication: Not applicable, as this study does not 
include identifiable individual data, images, or personal information requiring 
consent for publication.


86. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25565. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-11156-x.

Biochemical and molecular evaluation of resveratrol and selenium nanoparticles 
in managing type 2 diabetes and its complications.

Soliman AY(1), Elguindy NM(1), Saleh AM(2)(3), Balbaa M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Alexandria University, 
Alexandria, 21511, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Kasr El‑Aini Street, Cairo, 11562, Egypt.
(3)Epidemiological Surveillance Unit, Aweash El-Hagar Family Medicine Center, 
MOHP, Mansoura, 35711, Egypt.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Alexandria University, 
Alexandria, 21511, Egypt. mahmoud.balbaa@alexu.edu.eg.

The therapeutic potential of dietary polyphenols, such as resveratrol (Res) and 
elemental selenium nanoparticles (SeNPs), has gained increasing attention for 
the treatment and management of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). In this study, 
we investigated a novel therapeutic strategy using chitosan-stabilized Res/SeNPs 
(CS/Res/SeNPs) in a mouse model of T2DM induced by high-fat diet (HFD) feeding 
combined with multiple low-dose streptozotocin (STZ) injections. We evaluated 
the effects of these nanoparticles on glucose and insulin levels, 
oxidative/antioxidant balance, expression of apoptotic and anti-apoptotic genes, 
and inflammatory mediators using biochemical, histopathological, and molecular 
docking analyses. Treatment with free Res, CS/Res/SeNPs-5, CS/Res/SeNPs-10, and 
Metformin (Met) improved hyperglycemia, insulin resistance (IR), and 
dyslipidemia, and normalized elevated liver and kidney biomarkers. These 
treatments also exhibited anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anti-apoptotic 
effects. CS/Res/SeNPs-10 showed the most potent hepatoprotective and 
anti-diabetic effects. The docking results revealed that Res binds to key 
insulin signaling proteins, such as phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein 
kinase B (AKT)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Collectively, our findings 
highlight the therapeutic promise of CS/Res/SeNPs in managing T2DM complications 
and suggest a cost-effective strategy to enhance health outcomes and quality of 
life in diabetic patients.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-11156-x
PMID: 40664894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval: The study is reported in 
accordance with ARRIVE guidelines. All experimental procedures were carried out 
following the animal protocols approved by the Ethics Committee of the Faculty 
of Science, Alexandria University, Egypt (AU Approval No. 04231031102).


87. Eur J Pediatr. 2025 Jul 16;184(8):483. doi: 10.1007/s00431-025-06316-0.

Mental health risks in children with food allergies: a population-based 
comparison of food allergies with other chronic conditions.

Flaks-Manov N(#)(1), Goldshtein I(#)(1), Yanover C(1), Lachover-Roth I(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)KI Research Institute, Kfar Malal, Israel.
(2)Allergy and Clinical Immunology Unit, Meir Medical Center, Kfar Saba, Israel. 
idit.lachover@gmail.com.
(3)School of Medicine, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel. idit.lachover@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Children with chronic diseases face a higher risk of mental health disorders. 
However, the cognitive consequences of food allergies (FA), which are not 
classified as a chronic disease, remain insufficiently researched. The objective 
of this study is to examine the association between FA and mental health in 
children and adolescents, compared to children and adolescents without FA 
(controls) and those with other chronic conditions but no history of FA. This is 
a retrospective cohort study using IQVIA Medical Research Data from UK primary 
care practices. Five cohorts of children aged 0-18 between 2000 and 2021 were 
defined: FA, control, asthma, atopic dermatitis (AD), and type 1 diabetes (T1D). 
The study included 1,130,721 children without FA (control), 23,263 with FA, 
136,453 with asthma, 207,575 with AD, and 4835 with T1D. Compared to control, FA 
patients had higher risks of eating disorders (hazard ratio (HR) 1.85, 95% CI 
1.42-2.41), anxiety (HR 1.35, 95% CI 1.25-1.45), and depression (HR 1.24, 95% CI 
1.11-1.39). FA patients had lower depression risk than asthma and T1D patients 
(HR 0.77, 95% CI 0.68-0.87, 0.64, 95% CI 0.54-0.76, respectively) and lower 
anxiety risk than asthma patients (HR 0.86, 95% CI 0.79-0.91). FA patients' risk 
of eating disorders was not significantly different from asthma and T1D patients 
(HR 1.17, 95% CI 0.88-1.55, 1.58, 95% CI 0.81-3.10, respectively) but was 
significantly higher than in the AD group (HR 1.43, 95% CI 1.07-1.90).
CONCLUSION: This study indicates that children with FA face elevated risks of 
anxiety, depression, and eating disorders compared to children without FA, and 
that these risks vary when compared to children with other chronic conditions. 
These findings highlight the need for integrated mental health support in FA 
management and greater awareness of FA's psychological impact among healthcare 
providers.
WHAT IS KNOWN: • Children with chronic illnesses such as asthma and diabetes are 
known to have an elevated risk of mental health disorders. However, research on 
the mental health impact of food allergies remains limited.
WHAT IS NEW: • This study reveals that children with FA have significantly 
increased risks of anxiety, depression, and eating disorders compared to 
children without FA and provides comparative insights into the mental health 
risks of FA relative to other chronic conditions like asthma, atopic dermatitis, 
type 1 diabetes, and healthy controls.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-025-06316-0
PMID: 40664887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: This study was 
performed in line with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Approval 
was granted by the Ethics Committee of IQVIA Scientific Review Committee (SRC 
Reference Number: 23SRC014). Competing interest: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


88. Eur Radiol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s00330-025-11799-4. Online ahead of
print.

Splanchnic hemodynamic parameters measured with 4D flow MRI can diagnose severe 
portal hypertension.

Bane O(1)(2), Geahchan A(3)(4), Stocker D(3)(4)(5), Pavuluri S(4), Abboud 
G(3)(4), Kennedy P(3)(4), Sharma H(3), Hectors SJ(3)(4), Thung S(6), Jin N(7), 
Fischman A(3), Markl M(8)(9), Reeder S(10), Schiano TD(11), Taouli B(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic, Molecular and Interventional Radiology, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. 
octavia.bane@mountsinai.org.
(2)BioMedical Engineering and Imaging Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. octavia.bane@mountsinai.org.
(3)Department of Diagnostic, Molecular and Interventional Radiology, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(4)BioMedical Engineering and Imaging Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Pathology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(7)Siemens Healthineers, Solon, OH, USA.
(8)Department of Biomedical Engineering, McCormick School of Engineering, 
Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, USA.
(9)Department of Radiology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(10)Department of Radiology, University of Wisconsin Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(11)Recanati-Miller Transplantation Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the diagnostic performance of splanchnic hemodynamic 
parameters measured with 4D flow MRI for diagnosis of severe portal hypertension 
(PH; hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) ≥ 12 mmHg), and prediction of liver 
decompensation in patients with chronic liver disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Our single-center prospective study (2018-2022) enrolled 
patients undergoing transjugular liver biopsy with wedge HVPG measurement for 
abdominal 4D flow MRI (MRI-HVPG interval = 28 ± 18 (1-78) days). 4D flow MRI was 
acquired at 1.5 T, 10 min. after injection of gadoxetic acid, with a prototype 
sequence in coronal-oblique orientation (VENC = 60 cm/s). Multiple observers 
manually segmented the portal, superior mesenteric, splenic and middle hepatic 
veins, supraceliac aorta, celiac trunk, hepatic and splenic arteries. 
Time-averaged vessel cross-section area, through-plane time-averaged velocity 
and flow, and peak velocity were compared between patients with/without severe 
PH, and with/without future liver decompensation by Mann-Whitney U test and ROC 
analysis.
RESULTS: 50 patients (M/F: 26/24, age = 52 ± 15 years) were included, of which 
47 had clinical follow-up 1084 ± 618 days after MRI. Twenty-three of 50 (46%) 
patients had PH, 8/50 (16%) had severe PH, and 12/47 (26%) had decompensation. 
Celiac trunk peak velocity [AUC (95% CI) = 0.90 (0.80-0.99)] and superior 
mesenteric vein area [AUC (95% CI) = 0.88 (0.77-0.99)] identified severe PH with 
the highest diagnostic performance. A logistic regression model combining celiac 
trunk peak velocity and superior mesenteric vein flow identified severe PH with 
AUC (95% CI) = 0.95 (0.88-1.00), sensitivity = 100%, specificity = 89%. Hepatic 
[AUC (95% CI) = 0.74 (0.57-0.92)] and splenic artery [AUC (95% CI) = 0.74 
(0.52-0.96)] area, celiac trunk [AUC (95% CI) = 0.70 (0.51-0.89)] and superior 
mesenteric vein [AUC (95% CI) = 0.72 (0.55-0.89)] flow predicted liver 
decompensation with good diagnostic performance.
CONCLUSION: Splanchnic 4D flow MRI measurements have excellent performance for 
diagnosing severe PH and good performance for predicting liver decompensation.
KEY POINTS: Question Noninvasive detection of severe portal hypertension 
(hepatic venous pressure gradient ≥ 12 mmHg) is important to prevent bleeding, 
decompensation, and death in patients with chronic liver disease. Findings 
Splanchnic hemodynamic measurements by 4D flow MRI can identify patients with 
severe portal hypertension and predict liver decompensation with excellent/good 
diagnostic performance. Clinical relevance 4D flow MRI can potentially be 
integrated into the clinical MRI protocols of patients with liver cirrhosis.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to European Society of Radiology.

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-025-11799-4
PMID: 40664866

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standards. Guarantor: 
The scientific guarantor of this publication is Bachir Taouli. Conflict of 
interest: The authors of this manuscript declare relationships with the 
following companies: P.K. is an employee of Boston Scientific, and S.J.H. is an 
employee of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, which are not sponsors of this project. 
N.J. is an employee of Siemens Healthineers, which supported this project with a 
prototype pulse sequence and data analysis software. B.T. received material 
support for this research from Siemens, in the form of a research 4D flow MRI 
pulse sequence and data analysis software. O.B., A.G., D.S., S.P., G.A., H.S., 
A.F., M.M., S.T., T.D.S. and S.R. declare no relationships with any companies, 
whose products or services may be related to the subject matter of the article. 
Statistics and biometry: No complex statistical methods were necessary for this 
paper. Informed consent: Written informed consent was obtained from all subjects 
(patients) in this study. Ethical approval: Institutional Review Board approval 
was obtained from the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Institutional 
Review Board. Study subjects or cohorts overlap: All patients in our cohort 
underwent multiparametric MRI (diffusion-weighted, DCE-MRI, T1, T1ρ, MR 
elastography and 4D flow). In the interest of clarity and brevity, we decided to 
present the data acquired with different MRI methods (e.g., 4D flow, T1 and T1ρ 
relaxometry, and elastography) separately. Some study subjects or cohorts have 
been previously reported in a published study on T1 and T1ρ mapping in portal 
hypertension (Hectors et al [19]), native and contrast-enhanced T1 (Altinmakas 
et al [18]), DCE-MRI (Hectors et al [17]) and MR elastography (Kennedy et al 
[16]). A subset of 10 patients was also included in a technical paper comparing 
two 4D flow methods (Bane et al [20]). We have presented preliminary results of 
this study in oral presentations at the annual meetings of the Society of 
Abdominal Radiology (2024, 2020), the Society of Advanced Body Imaging (2023), 
and the International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine (2020). 
Methodology: Prospective Cross-sectional study/observational Performed at one 
institution


89. J Neurol. 2025 Jul 15;272(8):511. doi: 10.1007/s00415-025-13213-x.

Risk factors, clinical presentation, stroke subtype and short-term outcome 
following acute stroke in a multi-ethnic population: a 10-year study from Qatar.

Zadeh PB(#)(1), Tran KH(#)(2), Khan N(2), Kamal A(2), Akhtar N(3), Shuaib A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Stroke Program, University of Alberta, 11350 83 Ave, 
Edmonton, AB, T6G 2G3, Canada. Babaeiza@ualberta.ca.
(2)Department of Neurology, Stroke Program, University of Alberta, 11350 83 Ave, 
Edmonton, AB, T6G 2G3, Canada.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Stroke remains a leading global cause of disability and mortality 
with over 100 million patients affected worldwide. Its incidence has risen in 
recent decades, especially in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), due to 
limited education, healthcare, and effective prevention measures. This study 
investigates the association between ethnicity and outcomes of stroke in Qatar, 
a country with a heterogeneous population.
METHODS: Data from 18,174 stroke patients admitted to Hamad General Hospital 
from 2014 to 2024 were analyzed. We assessed patient characteristics, stroke 
types, comorbidities, and outcomes using the NIH Stroke Scale and modified 
Rankin Scale (mRS).
RESULTS: There were significant ethnic differences in stroke presentation and 
outcomes. Middle Easterns were older (59.7 ± 14.2) than South East Asian 
(50.1 ± 11.7) and Far Eastern (47.5 ± 9.85) patients; p < 0.001. Middle Eastern 
patients had a higher prevalence of stroke risk factors (diabetes, hypertension, 
obesity) and stroke mimics (39.8%) than Southeast Asian (21.7%) and Far Eastern 
(27.7%) patients (p < 0.0001). Far Eastern patients demonstrated a higher 
incidence (17.6%) of intracerebral hemorrhage compared to Middle Easterns (6.2%) 
and East Asians (10.6%); p < 0.0001. However, ischemic stroke was more common 
among Southeast Asians (58.6%) than Middle Eastern (43.8%) and Far Eastern 
(44.4%) patients; p < 0.0001. Lastly, there were significant differences in 
outcomes as measured by mortality and the mRS.
CONCLUSION: There are significant ethnic differences in stroke presentation, 
management, and outcomes in Qatar, some of which may reflect underlying 
disparities driven by social and structural inequities. While genetic 
differences play a role, early management of vascular risk factors is a crucial, 
preventable measure to reduce stroke burden in LMICs and improve health 
outcomes.

© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-025-13213-x
PMID: 40664805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: On behalf of 
all authors, the corresponding author states that there is no conflict of 
interest. Ethical standards: For this type of study formal consent is not 
required.


90. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25647. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10574-1.

Linear inverse association between prognostic nutritional index and colorectal 
cancer risk based on NHANES data.

Han Y(#)(1), Zhou P(#)(1)(2), Wang L(#)(2), Tang Y(#)(2), Ding Y(2), Yang Y(2), 
Qiu C(1), Li Y(2), Xia J(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, The Affiliated Wuxi No.2 People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Wuxi, China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Institute of General Surgical Research, School 
of Medicine, Jiangnan University Medical Center, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 
China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, The Affiliated Wuxi No.2 People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Wuxi, China. xjz_wuxi@alumni.sjtu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Institute of General Surgical Research, School 
of Medicine, Jiangnan University Medical Center, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 
China. xjz_wuxi@alumni.sjtu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Despite the Prognostic Nutritional Index (PNI) serving as a crucial prognostic 
marker for predicting survival outcomes in cancer patients, its association with 
the risk of Colorectal Cancer (CRC) is not well comprehended. We hypothesized 
that lower PNI levels are associated with a higher risk of CRC. The datasets 
from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) spanning from 
2007 to 2016 were employed in this study, incorporating data on demographics, 
laboratory tests, and questionnaires. Participants aged ≥ 20 years were 
included, while those with missing tumor history or incomplete laboratory data 
for PNI calculation (serum albumin or lymphocyte count) were excluded. A total 
of 26,229 participants who met the inclusion criteria were evaluated, of which 
176 had a history of CRC. The PNI was calculated as 0.005 × absolute lymphocyte 
count + 10 × serum albumin, and categorized into quartiles. CRC status was 
determined via self-reported medical history. To investigate the linear 
relationship between PNI and CRC, multivariable logistic regression models, 
restricted cubic spline analysis, and subgroup analyses were used. Covariates 
were adjusted using multiple imputation, and all analyses were conducted using 
DecisionLinnc v1.0. Statistical significance was set at P < 0.05. The average 
PNI score was 42.55 ± 3.42. Fully adjusted multivariable logistic regression 
models identified a significant inverse relationship between higher PNI scores 
and lower odds of CRC. Specifically, each one-unit increase in PNI was 
associated with a 6.43% reduction in the odds of CRC [OR: 0.9357; 95% CI: 
0.8942, 0.9807; p = 0.005]. Restricted cubic spline analysis further validated a 
linear association between PNI and CRC risk. Subgroup analyses demonstrated that 
the association remained consistent across factors including gender, age, 
marital status, education level, BMI, alcohol consumption, smoking habits, 
history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes. Males exhibited a more 
pronounced inverse correlation between PNI and CRC risk. Higher PNI scores are 
independently associated with reduced odds of CRC. PNI may serve as a valuable 
risk biomarker for identifying individuals at elevated CRC risk and could 
enhance large-scale screening strategies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10574-1
PMID: 40664778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


91. Eye (Lond). 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41433-025-03919-7. Online ahead of
print.

Tear proteomics reveals expressed proteins and potential pathways associated 
with diabetic keratopathy.

Chen Z(1)(2), Li J(1), Li Y(1), Liang L(1), Lu X(3), Zhong Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Zhujiang Hospital of Southern Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, PR China.
(2)Putian Maternal and Child Health Hospital, Putian City, Fujian Province, 
China.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Zhujiang Hospital of Southern Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, PR China. luxh63@163.com.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Zhujiang Hospital of Southern Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, PR China. zhongyanyan07@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Patients with diabetes are at risk of developing diabetic 
keratopathy (DK). The pathophysiological mechanisms of DK and associated 
biomarkers remain unclear. However, tear analysis provides crucial insights into 
DK. Thus, we conducted a quantitative proteomic analysis of tears from DK 
patients to identify differentially expressed proteins and potential pathways 
associated with DK.
METHODS: This prospective case-controlled study included patients admitted to 
Zhujiang Hospital between October 2022 and February 2023. We examined 22 eyes 
with DK and 11 control eyes without DK. General characteristics and dry 
eye-related features were recorded, including those observed using ocular 
surface analysis, conjunctival impression cytology, and tear ferning tests. Tear 
fluid was collected using Schirmer strips after ensuring group similarity in 
confounders. Proteins were analysed through four-dimensional label-free mass 
spectrometry. Differential proteins were subjected to analyses of Gene Ontology 
(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses. A 
protein-protein interaction network map was constructed.
RESULTS: Of the 2733 proteins identified, 313 (156 upregulated and 157 
downregulated) differentially expressed proteins were screened. GO analysis 
revealed that these differentially expressed proteins mainly participated in 
mRNA decay, nuclear transcription, and receptor-mediated endocytosis. KEGG 
analysis showed that these differentially expressed proteins could be involved 
in pathways, such as arginine biosynthesis, extracellular matrix-receptor 
interactions.
CONCLUSIONS: Arginine biosynthesis and extracellular matrix-receptor 
interactions may be involved in DK pathogenesis, and VDAC3 may be a potential 
biomarker for DK. These findings would enhance the understanding of DK among 
ophthalmologists as well as help in developing novel strategies for its 
treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Royal College of 
Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1038/s41433-025-03919-7
PMID: 40664763

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Ethics approval and consent to participate: This study was 
approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical 
University (2022-KY-219-01). All participants have read and understood the 
study’s nature, purpose, risks, and procedures and signed an informed consent 
form.


92. Eye (Lond). 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41433-025-03924-w. Online ahead of
print.

Effect of sitagliptin on diabetes-induced hyperpermeability of blood-retinal 
barrier components.

Simó R(#)(1)(2)(3), Ramos H(#)(4)(5), García-Ramírez M(4)(5), Hernández 
C(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes and Metabolism Research Unit, Vall d'Hebron Research Institute, 
Barcelona, Spain. rafael.simo@vhir.org.
(2)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Diabetes y Enfermedades 
Metabólicas Asociadas (CIBERDEM), Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ICSIII), 
Madrid, Spain. rafael.simo@vhir.org.
(3)Department of Medicine, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. 
rafael.simo@vhir.org.
(4)Diabetes and Metabolism Research Unit, Vall d'Hebron Research Institute, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Diabetes y Enfermedades 
Metabólicas Asociadas (CIBERDEM), Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ICSIII), 
Madrid, Spain.
(6)Diabetes and Metabolism Research Unit, Vall d'Hebron Research Institute, 
Barcelona, Spain. cristina.hernandez@vhir.org.
(7)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Diabetes y Enfermedades 
Metabólicas Asociadas (CIBERDEM), Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ICSIII), 
Madrid, Spain. cristina.hernandez@vhir.org.
(8)Department of Medicine, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. 
cristina.hernandez@vhir.org.
(#)Contributed equally

DOI: 10.1038/s41433-025-03924-w
PMID: 40664761

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Two of the authors (RS and 
CH) are inventors of the patent PCT/EP2017/060234, which is related to the use 
of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (sitagliptin) for topical eye treatment of 
retinal neurodegenerative diseases.


93. Eye (Lond). 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41433-025-03928-6. Online ahead of
print.

Does completion time of the initiation phase of anti-vascular growth factor 
affect visual and anatomical outcomes?: The MARMASIA study group report No.5.

Aydoğan Gezginaslan T(1), Özkaya A(2), Sevik MO(3), Saygın IÖ(4), Limon U(4), 
Bozkurt E(4), Önder Tokuç E(5), Başaran Emengen E(5), Kutlutürk Karagöz I(6), 
Kanar HS(6), Aykut A(3), Açıkalın Öncel B(7), Kaplan FB(7), Sönmez AD(7), Çelik 
E(8), Yayla U(9), Yenerel NM(10), Aydın Öncü Ö(10), Türkseven Kumral E(10), 
Erçalık NY(10), Şahin Ö(3), Karabaş L(5).

Author information:
(1)University of Health Sciences, Ümraniye Training and Research Hospital, 
Department of Ophthalmology, Istanbul, Turkey. tuay1@hotmail.com.
(2)Memorial Şişli Hospital, Department of Ophthalmology, Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Marmara University School of Medicine, Department of Ophthalmology, Istanbul, 
Turkey.
(4)University of Health Sciences, Ümraniye Training and Research Hospital, 
Department of Ophthalmology, Istanbul, Turkey.
(5)Kocaeli University School of Medicine, Department of Ophthalmology, Kocaeli, 
Turkey.
(6)University of Health Sciences, Kartal Dr. Lütfi Kırdar City Hospital, 
Department of Ophthalmology, Istanbul, Turkey.
(7)University of Health Sciences, Fatih Sultan Mehmet Training and Research 
Hospital, Department of Ophthalmology, Istanbul, Turkey.
(8)Sakarya University School of Medicine, Department of Ophthalmology, Sakarya, 
Turkey.
(9)University of Health Sciences, Derince Training and Research Hospital, 
Department of Ophthalmology, Kocaeli, Turkey.
(10)University of Health Sciences, Haydarpaşa Numune Training and Research 
Hospital, Department of Ophthalmology, Istanbul, Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: To demonstrate effect of completion time of initiation phase of 
anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) agents on visual and 
anatomical outcomes in diabetic macular oedema patients.
METHODS: This multicentre, retrospective, comparative study included a subgroup 
of patients from MARMASIA Study. Two groups were formed according to completion 
time of initiation phase of anti-VEGF treatment as ideal and extended completion 
time groups (ICT and ECT groups). Changes in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) 
as ETDRS letter score, central macular thickness (CMT) were compared between the 
groups at 3rd, 6th, 12th months. At 12th month injection, visit numbers were 
also evaluated.
RESULTS: A total of 328 eyes of 239 patients were included. Ninety-five eyes 
were in ICT, 233 eyes were in ECT group. Mean BCVA was significantly better than 
the baseline at 3rd, 6th, 12th months in ICT and ECT groups (p < 0.001 for all). 
Mean change in BCVA at months 3, 6, 12 was significantly better in the ICT group 
than the ECT group (p < 0.001, p = 0.003, p = 0.03, respectively). The mean CMT 
from baseline to at 3rd, 6th, 12th months was significantly decreased in the ICT 
and ECT groups (p < 0.0001 for all). Change in mean CMT was significantly higher 
in the ICT group than in the ECT group at 3rd, 6th, 12th months (p < 0.0001 for 
all). Mean number of injections, visits were not significantly different between 
groups (p = 0.2).
CONCLUSIONS: Initiation phase injections must be completed within a maximum of 
70 days (between injections 28 + 7 days) for better visual and anatomical 
outcomes.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Royal College of 
Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1038/s41433-025-03928-6
PMID: 40664760

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare that 
there is no conflict of interests. All authors attest that they meet the current 
ICMJE criteria for authorship.


94. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25637. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-08257-y.

Feasibility of extracting usable DNA from blood samples stored up to 21 years in 
the DiPiS study.

Svärd AA(1), Viberg E(2), von Platen I(2), Jönsson I(2), Lundgren M(3)(4); DiPiS 
study group.

Collaborators: Ramelius A, Andersson C, Bennet R, Ask M, Bremer J, Brundin C, 
Cilio C, Elding Larsson H, Hansson C, Hansson G, Ivarsson S, Jonsdottir B, 
Jonsson I, Lindberg B, Lernmark B, Lernmark Å, Melin J, Lundgren M, Carlsson A, 
Cedervall E, Jönsson B, Larsson K, Neiderud J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
agnes.andersson_svard@med.lu.se.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(3)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
markus.lundgren@med.lu.se.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Skåne University Hospital, Kristianstad, Sweden. 
markus.lundgren@med.lu.se.

This study assesses the feasibility of extracting high-quality DNA from blood 
samples stored at - 20 °C for up to 21 years under suboptimal conditions. It 
addresses sample mishandling in research, where many samples lack proper biobank 
protocols. Prior studies focused on short-term storage and controlled 
conditions, highlighting the negative effects of freeze-thaw cycles. This study 
evaluates whether DNA from long-term stored samples under suboptimal conditions 
can still meet quality standards for research purposes. Genomic DNA was 
extracted from 1012 capillary blood samples from the Diabetes Prediction in 
Skåne study. Samples were stored at - 20 °C for 7-21 years, and DNA was isolated 
using QIAamp DNA Blood Mini kits. DNA quantity, purity, and quality were 
analysed using spectrophotometry and automated electrophoresis. Overall, 75.7% 
of samples met quality standards for DNA quantity (≥ 20 ng/µL) and purity 
(A260/280 ratio 1.7-1.9), with the highest proportion in 12-year samples 
(83.5%). DNA quality was further assessed in 270 samples, where 57.8% had a DNA 
Integrity Number (DIN) of 7 or higher. This study suggests that historical blood 
samples stored under suboptmal conditions can still be viable for modern genomic 
analyses.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-08257-y
PMID: 40664750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: The samples analysed in this 
study were collected as part of the DiPiS study at Lund University. The DiPiS 
study was approved by the Regional Ethical Review Board in Lund (Dnr 2009/244, 
Dnr 2014/196, Dnr 2015/861and Dnr 2019-03,222) and complied with institutional 
and national research ethics standards including the 1964 Helsinki declaration 
and its later amendments or comparable ethical standards. In the DiPiS study, 
initiated in 200041,42, application of a eutectic mixture of lidocaine cream 
preceded blood draws to reduce pain. Informed consent was obtained from the 
parents of the research subjects to participate in the present cross-sectional 
follow-up investigation


95. Eur J Pediatr. 2025 Jul 15;184(8):482. doi: 10.1007/s00431-025-06303-5.

Experiences and perspectives during the transition from paediatric to adult care 
in type 1 diabetes mellitus: systematic review of qualitative studies.

Toledo-Chavarri A(1), Castaño AT(2), Ruiz MP(3), Rodríguez-Álvarez C(4), Arias 
A(5), García-Hernández M(6).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Estudios Sociales Avanzados (IESA), Consejo Superior de 
Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Network for Research On Chronicity, Primary 
Care, and Health Promotion (RICAPPS), Córdoba, Spain.
(2)Network for Research On Chronicity, Primary Care, and Health Promotion 
(RICAPPS), Canary Islands Health Research Institute Foundation, Carretera Gral. 
La Cuesta, 75-77, 38320, La Laguna, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, FIISC, Spain.
(3)Network for Research On Chronicity, Hospital Universitario Costa del Sol, 
Primary Care, and Health Promotion (RICAPPS), Marbella, Spain.
(4)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, University of La Laguna, 
38200, Canary Islands, Spain.
(5)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, University of La Laguna, 
38200, Canary Islands, Spain. angarias@ull.edu.es.
(6)Gerencia de Atención Primaria del Área de Salud de Tenerife, Network for 
Research On Chronicity, Primary Care, and Health Promotion (RICAPPS), Unidad 
Docente de Atención Familiar y Comunitaria La Laguna-Tenerife Norte, Santa Cruz 
de Tenerife, Spain.

When Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) patients transition from paediatric to 
adult healthcare providers, the risk of deteriorating health outcomes rises. The 
aim of this study is to integrate the experiences and perspectives regarding 
interventions for the management of T1DM during the transition from paediatric 
to adult care, from a patient and professional perspective. A systematic review 
was conducted with a framework analysis guided by the Cochrane Qualitative and 
Implementation Methods Group approach. Three online databases (Medline, Embase 
and Web of Science) were searched. We included qualitative articles that were 
available in English or Spanish. Twenty-five references met the inclusion 
criteria of the study and were included. Four main themes were identified: (a) 
teen experience, (b) acceptability, (c) implementation considerations and (d) 
equity.
CONCLUSION: During the care transition, adolescents with T1DM undergo a critical 
phase of increasing care independence in which fostering autonomy and 
strengthening continuity of care may achieve a more satisfying care.
WHAT IS KNOWN: • Transitions from pediatric to adult healthcare providers are 
associated with an increased risk of adverse health outcomes.
WHAT IS NEW: • This study highlights that enhancing the transition process 
requires improved information transfer, reinforced continuity of care, and 
effective coordination among healthcare providers.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-025-06303-5
PMID: 40664737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


96. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25531. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-08311-9.

Conducting the National Health and Morbidity Survey 2023 in Malaysia with focus 
on methodology and main findings on non-communicable diseases.

Mat Rifin H(1), Mohd Yusoff MF(2), Abd Hamid HA(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Public Health, National Institutes of Health, Ministry of 
Health, Blok B5 & B6,Kompleks NIH, No. 1, Jalan Setia Murni U13/52, Seksyen U13 
Setia Alam, Shah Alam, 40170, Selangor, Malaysia. halizah.matrifin@moh.gov.my.
(2)Institute for Public Health, National Institutes of Health, Ministry of 
Health, Blok B5 & B6,Kompleks NIH, No. 1, Jalan Setia Murni U13/52, Seksyen U13 
Setia Alam, Shah Alam, 40170, Selangor, Malaysia.

The National Health and Morbidity Survey (NHMS), which focuses on 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs), their risk factors and healthcare demand, is a 
cross-sectional, nationwide, population-based survey conducted every four-year 
cycle since 2011. NHMS 2023 was the 7th cycle of NCDs, their risk factors and 
healthcare demand, which aimed to monitor trends in diseases and healthcare 
utilisation. This article outlines the methodology, sociodemographic 
characteristics, and overall findings from the population surveyed in 2023 
regarding NCDs, their risk factors, and various health-related topics. This 
survey utilised a two-stage stratified random sampling design and encompassed 
fifteen main scopes, with sample sizes calculated to meet the specific 
requirements of each scope. Conducted from July to September 2023, it involved 
the random selection of 499 enumeration blocks(EBs) by the Department of 
Statistics Malaysia (DOSM) across all states and federal territories in 
Malaysia. The step resulted in the selection of 5,988 living quarters (LQs). 
Data collection methods included validated questionnaires administered through 
face-to-face interviews and self-administered questionnaires, alongside clinical 
assessments and blood investigations using calibrated devices. To ensure the 
high quality of the collected data, we implemented stringent quality control 
measures. Furthermore, we applied complex sampling analyses to ensure that the 
findings accurately represented the population in Malaysia. The survey received 
responses from 13,616 individuals out of the 5,006 LQs that were successfully 
visited, resulting in an overall response rate of the survey of 83.2%, which 
includes individuals aged 5 years and above. A substantial segment of the 
population lived in urban regions, comprising 77.6% of the total. About half of 
the population consisted of males (51.9%), Malay (54.6%), and individuals who 
had attained secondary education (54.2%). Additionally, 20.0% of the population 
were within the age range of 30 to 39 years. The weighted prevalence of diabetes 
was 15.6%, hypertension 29.2%, hypercholesterolaemia 33.3%, overweight and 
obesity 54.4%. Depression among adults was 4.6%, while mental health problems 
among children were reported at 16.5%. The current tobacco smokers prevalence 
was 19.0%, and 29.9% of adults in Malaysia were physically inactive. The known 
asthma prevalence among adults was 6.2%, while the current asthma among children 
was 3.4%. Additionally, 37.7% of adults experienced sleep insufficiency. The 
results indicate that the higher proportion of diabetes, hypertension, and 
hypercholesterolaemia, particularly among the young age group, and the high 
prevalence of overweight and obesity, as well as mental health problems,  are 
making the healthcare system deal with more non-communicable diseases, 
complications, and problems. The methodology of this survey is robust for a 
population-based study. We took comprehensive steps to ensure the validity and 
reliability of the findings. The findings indicate an urgent need for targeted 
public health interventions to address the escalating health issues. By focusing 
on prevention and early intervention strategies, we can mitigate the impact of 
NCDs on the healthcare system and improve overall population health.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-08311-9
PMID: 40664716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All respondents provided written informed consent prior to 
interviews. The survey protocol was approved by the Medical Research and Ethics 
Committee (MREC), Ministry of Health Malaysia (22-00545-XAC (2)). All methods 
adhered to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and the Malaysian Good 
Clinical Practice Guidelines. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


97. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 15;16(1):6534. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61815-w.

Activated GDF11/8 subforms predict cardiovascular events and mortality in 
humans.

Walker RG(#)(1), Kato T(#)(1), Ben Driss L(1), Williams SA(2)(3), Hinterberg 
MA(2), Janjic N(2), Gelinas AD(2), Carpenter MA(2)(3), Kattamuri C(4), Walter 
JE(5), Mueller C(5), Mendello KR(1), Gordon JV(1), Walker KA(6), Coresh J(7)(8), 
Bhasin S(9), Rubin LL(1)(10), Wagers AJ(1)(11)(12), Thompson TB(4), Ganz P(13), 
Lee RT(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology and the Harvard Stem Cell 
Institute, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(2)SomaLogic Inc, Boulder, CO, USA.
(3)Standard Biotools Inc, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular & Cellular Biosciences, University of Cincinnati 
College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(5)Department of Cardiology and Cardiovascular Research Institute Basel (CRIB), 
University Hospital Basel, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(6)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(8)Welch Center for Prevention, Epidemiology, and Clinical Research, Johns 
Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(9)Research Program in Men's Health: Aging and Metabolism, Boston Claude D. 
Pepper Older Americans Independence Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(10)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, MA, USA.
(11)Joslin Diabetes Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(12)Paul F. Glenn Center for the Biology of Aging, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(13)Division of Cardiology, Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital and 
Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA. 
peter.ganz@ucsf.edu.
(14)Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology and the Harvard Stem Cell 
Institute, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA. richard_lee@harvard.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Circulating Growth Differentiation Factors 11 and 8 (GDF11/8) exist in both 
latent and active forms, and it is unclear if specific forms can predict disease 
outcomes. Our data suggest that a dual-specific aptamer selectively binds 
GDF11/8 after prodomain activation. In 11,609 patients at risk for future 
cardiovascular events, low dual-specific aptamer-detected GDF11/8 levels 
strongly predicted adverse outcomes, including cardiovascular events (HR = 0.43, 
p = 9.1 × 10⁻⁶³) and all-cause mortality (HR = 0.33, p = 4.8 × 10⁻⁴⁰). Use of 
selective aptamers suggested that results observed with the dual-specific 
aptamer for cardiovascular and mortality risk replicated with a GDF8 aptamer 
although with a smaller effect size. In a second cohort of 4110 individuals 
(ARIC), low dual-specific aptamer-detected GDF11/8 levels also predicted 
increased 8 year dementia risk (HR = 0.66, p = 0.00148). Our findings reveal 
that activation of GDF11/8 may be a factor in future aging-related 
cardiovascular and cognitive decline.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61815-w
PMID: 40664633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: R.T.L., R.G.W., L.L.R., 
A.J.W, and T.B.T. are inventors of patents related to GDF11 and GDF8 through 
their institutions which are directly related to the proteins studied in this 
work. SomaLogic, Inc. provided research support and aptamers used in this study 
to the Lee Lab. J.E.W. was employed at Roche Diagnostics Switzerland in 2021 for 
9 months as an expert in personalized healthcare oncology, unrelated to the 
present work. P.G. has served on the medical advisory board of SomaLogic without 
receiving financial compensation. S.B. has received research grants from AbbVie, 
MIB, and FPT, and consultation fees from Novartis for work unrelated to the 
present study. The remaining authors declare no competing interests.


98. J Diabetes. 2025 Jul;17(7):e70088. doi: 10.1111/1753-0407.70088.

The Effect of Liver Transplantation on Anti-Glycaemic Agents in Patients With 
Pre-Existing Diabetes Mellitus: A Population-Based Cohort Study.

Coulden A(1)(2), Antza C(1)(2), Awala O(1), Shah N(1), Kandaswamy L(1), Nahar 
A(1), Phillips A(1), Upadhyaya S(1), Asif A(1), Khan Z(1), Babwah F(1), 
Armstrong M(1), Mostaf S(1)(2), Hanif W(1).

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals Birmingham NHSFT, Birmingham, UK.
(2)The Department of Metabolism and Systems Science, College of Medicine and 
Health, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: Anecdotally, patients with diabetes mellitus after undertaking a 
liver transplant have reported improved glycaemic control and reduced insulin 
requirements, compared to other organ transplants where glycaemic control often 
worsens. This study aimed to evaluate possible changes in anti-glycaemic agent 
requirements pre- and post-liver transplantation and correlate them with the 
immunosuppression used and the reason for transplant.
METHODS: In this observational, retrospective study, we investigated 258 adults 
with pre-existing diabetes mellitus who underwent liver transplant from October 
2009 to January 2020 at a tertiary UK center. We compared pre- and 
post-transplant insulin treatment requirements.
RESULTS: The mean age was 56 years, and the median duration of diabetes was 
96 months. From a subgroup of 100 patients (38.8%) using insulin therapy, there 
was a reduction in insulin requirements from 60.5 ± 44.6 units/day before 
transplant to 51.1 ± 31.2 units/day at 1 month post-transplantation (15.5%, 
p = 0.02), 43.4 ± 29.5 units/day at 3 months post-transplantation (28.2%, 
p < 0.0001) and 33.6 ± 29.7 units/day at 6 months post-transplantation (44.4%, 
p < 0.0001). There was a significant correlation between the difference in 
insulin requirement before and 6 months post-transplant and the tacrolimus dose 
used as immunosuppressive therapy post-liver transplant. There was no 
correlation with the use of other immunosuppressive therapies and change in 
insulin requirement.
CONCLUSIONS: Insulin requirements significantly reduced post-liver transplant by 
almost 50%, despite initiation of immunosuppressive therapy. This is one of the 
first studies showing this effect, highlighting the role of the liver in 
regulating glucose metabolism, insulin utilization, and insulin resistance. 
Pooled data from other specialist centers need to be examined.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Diabetes published by Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai 
JiaoTong University School of Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-0407.70088
PMID: 40664615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2025 Sep;52(9):e70056. doi:
10.1111/1440-1681.70056.

M2 Macrophages-Derived Exosomes Inhibited Podocyte Pyroptosis via lncRNA 
AFAP1-AS1/EZH2 Axis.

Zhan Q(1), Liu H(2), Zhao M(1), Huang H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, the First Affiliated Hospital, 
Jiangxi Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Fengcheng People's Hospital of 
Jiangxi Province, Fengcheng, China.

Macrophage infiltration was closely associated with inflammatory injury of 
podocytes in diabetic nephropathy (DN), while how macrophages affected podocytes 
remained not entirely clear. Here, we not only investigated the relationship 
between macrophages and high glucose (HG)-treated podocytes, but the underlying 
mechanisms were also explored. Transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle 
tracking analysis, and western blot of CD9, CD63, CD81, and Calnexin were 
performed to identify exosomes; QRT-PCR was performed to detect AFAP1-AS1 
expression; Western blot was performed to examine NLRP3, Cleaved caspase-1, and 
GSDMD-N protein levels; Immunofluorescence was performed to assess 
co-localisation of NLRP3 and ASC; ELISA was performed to detect IL-18 and IL-1β 
levels; Cytotoxicity LDH Assay Kit was performed to detect LDH level; RNA 
pulldown was performed to determine the interaction of AFAP1-AS1 and EZH2; ChIP 
was employed to determine the interaction of EZH2 and H3K27me3 in the NLRP3 
promoter region. The results showed that AFAP1-AS1 expression was down-regulated 
in the peripheral blood of DN patients, and exosomes derived from M2 macrophages 
transfected with si-AFAP1-AS1 enhanced HG-induced podocyte pyroptosis via 
significantly elevating NLRP3, Cleaved caspase-1, and GSDMD-N protein levels, 
immunofluorescence intensity of NLRP3 and ASC, as well as IL-18, IL-1β, and LDH 
levels. Mechanistically, AFAP1-AS1 interacted with EZH2 to transcriptionally 
regulate H3K27me3 level in the NLRP3 promoter region, thus epigenetically 
repressing NLRP3 level to inhibit podocyte pyroptosis. These results may provide 
an important target for improving kidney injury in DN.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1440-1681.70056
PMID: 40664611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Jul 15:118321. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118321. 
Online ahead of print.

Corrigendum to "Empagliflozin attenuating renal interstitial fibrosis in 
diabetic kidney disease by inhibiting lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic 
endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition via the VEGF-C/VEGFR3 pathway" [Biomed. 
Pharmacother. 180 (2024) 117589].

Huang J(1), Liu Y(1), Shi M(2), Zhang X(3), Zhong Y(3), Guo S(4), Ma Y(5), Pan 
L(5), Yang F(6), Wang Y(7).

Author information:
(1)Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine for Liver and Kidney Diseases, Shijiazhuang 05000, China; Hebei 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, No.326, Xinshi South Road, Qiaoxi 
District, Shijiazhuang 05000, China.
(2)Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine for Liver and Kidney Diseases, Shijiazhuang 05000, China; Acupuncture 
and moxibustion and Massage College of Hebei University of Chinese Medicine, 
No.3 Xingyuan Road, Luquan District, Shijiazhuang 050200, China.
(3)Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine for Liver and Kidney Diseases, Shijiazhuang 05000, China.
(4)The Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang 050200, China.
(5)Hebei Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shijiazhuang 
050200, China.
(6)Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine for Liver and Kidney Diseases, Shijiazhuang 05000, China; Hebei 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, No.326, Xinshi South Road, Qiaoxi 
District, Shijiazhuang 05000, China. Electronic address: 
yangfan001@hebcm.edu.cn.
(7)Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine for Liver and Kidney Diseases, Shijiazhuang 05000, China; Hebei 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, No.326, Xinshi South Road, Qiaoxi 
District, Shijiazhuang 05000, China; The Second Affiliated Hospital of Hebei 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Dingzhou 073000, China. Electronic 
address: wangyuehua@hebcm.edu.cn.

Erratum for
    Biomed Pharmacother. 2024 Nov;180:117589. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2024.117589.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118321
PMID: 40664589