1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 21:2025.04.07.647301. doi: 
10.1101/2025.04.07.647301.

Plasmodium falciparum DNA repair dynamics reveal unique roles for TLS 
polymerases and PfRad51 in genome diversification.

Vishwanatha A, Zhang X, Liu YJ, Leung A, Herring M, Chan A, Calhoun S, Deitsch 
K, Kirkman L.

The haploid malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, evolved a unique cohort of 
DNA repair pathways enabling the parasite to survive in a vertebrate host red 
blood cell and the mosquito vector. P. falciparum chromosomes are partitioned 
into a highly conserved core genome and remarkably diverse, largely subtelomeric 
regions that contain genes encoding important parasite virulence factors. The 
molecular mechanisms that maintain this chromosomal structure have not been 
identified. Here, we describe specific DNA repair pathways that differentiate 
between hypervariable subtelomeric and conserved core regions of the genome. 
Based on our previous work, we hypothesized that there are potentially important 
interactions between translesion (TLS) and homologous recombination (HR) 
pathways for the diversification of multicopy gene families in P. falciparum. 
Thus, we created knockout parasite lines of the DNA repair enzymes: PfRad51 and 
the TLS polymerases PfPol ζ and PfRev1 . We identified that irradiation 
hypersensitivity varied across the cell cycle for TLSΔ parasites and was uniform 
across the erythrocytic cycle for PfRad51 Δ parasites, highlighting the variable 
roles of these pathways. However, important interactions between these pathways 
were found when we studied directed double strand break (DSB) repair, which 
revealed a difference in the DNA damage response according to chromosomal 
location. PfRad51 was essential for HR-mediated repair in the core genome. In 
contrast, we identified a Rad51 independent homology-directed repair in all 
three of our knockout lines when a DSB was made in the subtelomeric region of 
the chromosome. We propose that this differential DNA damage response maintains 
the distinction in diversification across the chromosome.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.04.07.647301
PMCID: PMC12262601
PMID: 40667286


2. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 26:2025.06.26.658380. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.26.658380.

Glycosylation of Plasmodium falciparum TRAP is essential for infection of 
mosquito salivary glands.

Gupta P, Rezakhani N, Pazzagli L, Patel H, Zanghi G, Kamil M, Watson A, 
Vigdorovich V, Camargo N, Knutson E, Sather DN, Vaughan AM, Swearingen KE.

The human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum ( Pf ) expresses ten 
thrombospondin type 1 repeat (TSR) domain-bearing proteins at different stages 
throughout its life cycle. TSRs can be modified by two types of glycosylation: 
O-fucosylation at conserved serine (S) or threonine (T) residues and 
C-mannosylation at conserved tryptophan (W) residues. Pf TRAP, which is 
expressed in mosquito-stage sporozoites, has one TSR domain that is 
O-fucosylated at Thr 256 and C-mannosylated at Trp 250 . We employed 
site-directed mutagenesis by CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing to generate two Pf TRAP 
glyco-null mutant parasites, Pf TRAP_T256A and Pf TRAP_W250F. The fitness of 
these mutant parasites across the life cycle was compared to the parental NF54 
wild type as well as a Pf TRAP knockout line. The glyco-null parasites exhibited 
major fitness defects comparable to knockout: sporozoites were unable to 
productively colonize the salivary glands and were highly impaired in gliding 
motility and the ability to invade cultured human hepatocytes. Protein analysis 
revealed significantly reduced Pf TRAP abundance in the glyco-null mutants 
despite normal transcript levels. These findings demonstrate that glycosylation 
of Pf TRAP's TSR is critical for its proper expression and function, and 
underscores the importance of TSR glycosylation in the mosquito stage of the 
life cycle.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.26.658380
PMCID: PMC12262273
PMID: 40667256


3. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 27:2025.06.26.661760. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.26.661760.

On the use of generative models for evolutionary inference of malaria vectors 
from genomic data.

Eneli AA, Siu PC, Perez MF, Burt A, Fumagalli M, Mathieson S.

Malaria in sub-Saharan Africa is transmitted by mosquitoes, in particular the 
Anopheles gambiae complex. Efforts to control the spread of malaria have often 
focused on these vectors, but relatively little is known about the relationships 
between populations and species in the Anopheles complex. Here, we first 
quantify the genetic structure of mosquito populations in sub-Saharan Africa 
using unsupervised machine learning. We then adapt and apply an innovative 
generative deep learning algorithm to infer the joint evolutionary history of 
populations sampled in Guinea and Burkina Faso, West Africa. We further develop 
a novel model selection approach and discover that an evolutionary model with 
migration fits this pair of populations better than a model without post-split 
migration. For the migration model, we find that our method outperforms earlier 
work based on summary statistics, especially in capturing population genetic 
differentiation. These findings demonstrate that machine learning and generative 
models are a valuable direction for future understanding of the evolution of 
malaria vectors, including the joint inference of demography and natural 
selection. Understanding changes in population size, migration patterns, and 
adaptation in hosts, vectors, and pathogens will assist malaria control 
interventions, with the ultimate goal of predicting nuanced outcomes from 
insecticide resistance to population collapse.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.26.661760
PMCID: PMC12262376
PMID: 40667127


4. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 29:2025.06.28.662088. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.28.662088.

OocystMeter, a machine-learning algorithm to count and measure Plasmodium 
oocysts, reveals clustering patterns in the Anopheles midgut.

Peng D, Marrogi E, Nelson E, Liu Q, Rinvee TA, de Vries LE, Thornburg K, Singh 
N, Shaw WR, Catteruccia F.

We present OocystMeter, a machine learning-based software developed to automate 
the segmentation of malaria oocysts from images of mosquito midguts stained with 
mercurochrome. Existing bioimage analysis tools, including machine 
learning-based ones, often struggle with the unique staining patterns, complex 
midgut backgrounds, and variable morphology of oocysts, making the determination 
of oocyst size and numbers cumbersome. To overcome these challenges, we curated 
a high-quality dataset comprised of 11,178 Plasmodium falciparum oocysts in 
Anopheles gambiae midguts annotated by expert parasitologists. Using this 
dataset, we fine-tuned a Mask R-CNN object detection model to achieve 
segmentation accuracy comparable to human parasitologists (Spearman's 
correlation of 0.998 for oocyst counts and 0.978 for size measurements). 
Applying this tool in conjunction with spatial analysis, we uncovered a 
non-random, clustered spatial distribution of oocysts independent of the 
midgut's anatomical regions or geometric axes, particularly in infections with 
fewer than 75 oocysts/midgut. Our workflow significantly accelerates malaria 
oocyst intensity and size analysis, reduces human bias, and provides spatial 
coordinates for advanced parasitology studies. OocystMeter is freely available 
at https://github.com/duopeng/OocystMeter, and as a web tool at 
http://Oocystmeter.org/, offering a valuable resource for researchers 
investigating the oocyst stage of malaria development.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.28.662088
PMCID: PMC12262567
PMID: 40667075


5. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 19:2025.06.17.659961. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.17.659961.

Signatures of selection and mechanisms of insecticide resistance in Ugandan 
Anopheles funestus : Insights from embedding translational genomics into the 
LLINEUP cluster randomised trial.

Namuli-Kayondo L, Nagi SC, Nganga HN, Hernandez-Koutoucheva A, McDermott DP, 
Gonahasa S, Lynd A, Oruni A, Maiteki-Sebuguzi C, Opigo J, Yeka A, Katureebe A, 
Kyohere M, Kamya MR, Dorsey G, Hemingway J, Staedke SG, Nsobya SL, Nankabirwa 
JI, Kayondo J, Clarkson C, Miles A, Lawniczak MKN, Lucas ER, Donnelly MJ.

In response to the emerging threat of insecticide resistance in malaria vectors, 
insecticides are being repurposed for vector control or developed de novo . Good 
stewardship of these finite new resources is essential if disease control 
programmes are to remain effective. This is dependent on timely data to help 
guide evidence-based decision-making for National Malaria Control programmes 
(NMCPs). By embedding genomics into cluster randomized control trials (cRCTs), 
we can perform surveillance and early detection of insecticide resistance 
variants to new and repurposed chemicals in natural field conditions, supporting 
effective stewardship. The LLIN Evaluation Uganda Project (LLINEUP) trial 
evaluated the efficacy of pyrethroid-piperonyl butoxide (PBO) and 
pyrethroids-only long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs). It was conducted in 
Uganda between 2017-2020 and was the largest cRCT to date, covering 40% of the 
country in 104 health sub-districts. We embedded genomic surveillance within 
LLINEUP to detect and track insecticide resistance variants. At baseline and 
throughout the trial, we sampled Anopheles mosquitoes with Prokopack aspirators 
and performed Illumina whole-genome sequencing. We show that An. funestus 
populations were relatively unaffected by the interventions, compared to An. 
gambiae s.l., which were markedly reduced six months following LLIN deployment. 
Standard approaches for describing genetic diversity and population structure 
e.g. fixation index ( F ST ), Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and 
Neighbour-Joining (NJ) trees, were consistent with the density observations and 
suggestive of a single large An. funestus population in Uganda with little 
genetic differentiation. Genome-wide selection scans revealed strong signals of 
selection at the Resistance to pyrethroid-1 (RP1 ) locus and Cyp9k1 , both loci 
previously implicated in pyrethroid resistance. We report two additional loci, 
eye diacylglycerol kinase ( Dgk ) (≅13.5Mb on the X chromosome) and 
O-mannosyl-transferase ( TMC-like ) (≅67.9Mb on 3RL) that showed signals of 
selection. Known DDT and permethrin resistance-associated variants at the Gste2 
locus, L119F and L119V, were also identified. Over the trial period, changes in 
haplotype frequencies were observed in regions under selection, with more 
pronounced shifts in the PBO arm. Notably, there were significant reductions in 
the frequencies of swept haplotypes (measured by delta (Δ) H12) in the Dgk and 
Cyp6p9a regions, while significant increases in haplotype frequency were 
observed at Gste2 and Cyp9k1 loci. Our findings reveal the differential impact 
of the trial on An. gambiae s.l. and An. funestus densities and the differing 
responses of An. funestus populations to pyrethroid and pyrethroid-PBO selection 
pressure. These insights underscore the potential value of tailored, species- 
and region-specific vector control strategies, supported by regional genetic 
surveillance, to better control insecticide resistance evolution and spread. By 
embedding genomic surveillance in cRCTs we can facilitate the discovery of 
putative resistance variants and can provide evidence of their impact on vector 
control tool efficacy; both of crucial importance to evidence-based deployment 
of vector control tools by NMCPs.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.17.659961
PMCID: PMC12262602
PMID: 40667046


6. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 23:2025.06.13.655782. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.13.655782.

Spatially-explicit genomics of An. gambiae s.l uncovers fine-scale population 
structure and mechanisms of insecticide resistance.

Nagi SC, Essandoh J, Ato-Egyir N, Lucas ER, Miles A, Desewu K, Williams I, 
Egyir-Yawson A, Sedda L, Weetman D, Donnelly MJ.

Progress in malaria control in sub-Saharan Africa is stalling, partly due to the 
spread of insecticide resistance in Anopheles vectors. Monitoring the evolution 
of insecticide resistance alleles and their spatial heterogeneity is important 
for malaria control programmes, and genomic surveillance has emerged as a 
pivotal tool for this purpose. Earlier genomics research has typically employed 
convenience-based sampling, and research has yet to be performed to optimise 
sampling regimens for malaria vector genomics. In an earlier study, we developed 
a spatially explicit sampling framework that considers the underlying ecology to 
enable sampling mosquitoes with reduced bias. We applied this framework to 
sample and perform whole-genome sequencing on 485 individual specimens of An. 
gambiae s.l mosquitoes from Obuasi, central Ghana, an area with extensive gold 
mining activities. In this region, An. gambiae s.l have been documented as 
highly resistant to multiple insecticides, including pyrethroids used for the 
treatment of bed-nets. High resolution of fine-scale population structure 
enabled the detection of isolation-by-distance in An. coluzzii in Obuasi, whilst 
finding that at this scale, geographic distance, rather than the underlying 
habitat, drives population structure. We examine methods to estimate mosquito 
kinship, demonstrating that polymorphic chromosomal inversions significantly 
confound established analytical tools, while revealing how the mosquito's 
chromosome architecture generates high variance in genetic relatedness among 
kin. Using genome-wide selection scans and clustering, we discover the novel 
mutations Gste2- F120L and Cyp9K1 -N224I in detoxification enzymes that are 
driving selective sweeps, likely in response to insecticidal pressure. We find 
that the frequencies of some resistance variants are associated with 
artisanal-gold mines, and elucidate the continued evolution of the Voltage-gated 
sodium channel , the target of pyrethroid insecticides. Overall, we show that 
sampling vectors strategically may enhance our ability to perform effective 
genomic surveillance.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.13.655782
PMCID: PMC12262541
PMID: 40667006


7. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 24:2025.06.23.661218. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.661218.

Rapid detection of G6PD deficiency SNPs using a novel amplicon-based MinION 
Sequencing Assay.

Tacoli C, Kleinecke M, Hoon KS, Trimarsanto H, Nadeem M, Eam R, Khim N, Rumaseb 
A, Ley B, Sayre D, Phok S, Lek D, Witkowski B, Hwang J, Auburn S, Mueller I, 
Price RN, Popovici J.

Plasmodium vivax malaria remains a significant global health challenge, 
complicated by the parasite's ability to form dormant liver stages (hypnozoites) 
that cause relapses. Radical cure of P. vivax malaria requires administration of 
a hypnozoitocidal drug, such as primaquine or tafenoquine. However, these drugs 
can cause severe haemolysis in individuals with glucose-6-phosphate 
dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. G6PD deficiency is caused by more than 230 
different variants at the gene level that confer different degrees of deficiency 
phenotypically. Understanding the distribution of different G6PD variants in 
affected populations is essential to inform safer antimalarial treatment 
strategies. This study aimed to develop a cost-effective sequencing assay 
targeting key regions of the G6PD gene, suitable for field deployment. A novel 
assay based on Nanopore technology was designed to amplify two amplicons 
covering exon 3 to exon 13, focusing on known variants associated with enzyme 
deficiency. A total of 79 samples from individuals in Cambodia, Vietnam, 
Afghanistan, and China were sequenced, and a bioinformatics pipeline was created 
for the targeted variant calling of 192 G6PD SNP mutations. The assay 
demonstrated reliable detection of known variants, with high concordance between 
runs, within runs, and with Sanger sequencing. The Nanopore MinION long-amplicon 
sequencing assay offers a robust and portable solution for large-scale G6PD 
genotyping in low-resource settings, that will improve malaria control and 
elimination strategies by enabling safer antimalarial treatment.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.661218
PMCID: PMC12262242
PMID: 40666837


8. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2025 Jun 6;16(7):1383-1390. doi: 
10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00251. eCollection 2025 Jul 10.

Acridone Prodrugs with Enhanced Dual-Stage Antimalarial Efficacy.

Dodean RA(1)(2), Li Y(2), Zhang X(2), Kumar A(1), Pou S(2), W Winter R(2), 
Liebman KM(2), Zakharov LN(3), Caridha D(4), Madejczyk MS(4), Vuong C(4), DeLuca 
J(4), Chin G(4), Kudyba K(4), McEnearney S(4), Jin X(4), Dennis WE(4), Chetree 
R(4), Blount C(4), Pannone K(4), Dinh HT(4), Mdaki K(4), Leed S(4), Lee PJ(4), 
Roth A(4), Kancharla P(1), Kelly JX(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Portland State University, Portland, Oregon 97201, 
United States.
(2)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Portland, Oregon 97239, United 
States.
(3)CAMCOR, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon 97403, United States.
(4)Experimental Therapeutics Branch, CIDR, Walter Reed Army Institute of 
Research, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910, United States.

In this study, we present a prodrug strategy that successfully led to the 
development of highly potent dual-stage antimalarial acridone analogs with 
radical cure potential. Notably, the prodrug T235, featuring a carbamate 
promoiety on the middle ring of the acridone core, demonstrated greater oral 
efficacy than its parent compound, T226. T235 provided a complete cure in 
Plasmodium yoelii-infected mice up to 28 days at doses of 3 and 10 mg/kg 
administered over 4 days and was also curative with a single oral dose of 20 
mg/kg. Furthermore, T235 offered full liver-stage protection and a sustained 
blood-stage cure in murine Plasmodium berghei infection when administered orally 
at 10 mg/kg/day, exhibiting superior prophylactic efficacy compared to T226. 
This study paves the way for the development of highly effective acridone-based 
prodrugs for both malaria prevention and treatment.

© 2025 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00251
PMCID: PMC12257405
PMID: 40666482


9. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 23:2025.06.22.25330092. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.22.25330092.

A Novel Plasmodium falciparum Kelch13 A675T Mutation and High Levels of 
Chloroquine and Sulfadoxine-Pyrimethamine Resistance in Burundi.

Kayode T, Niyukuri D, Holzschuh A, Da Silva G, Huwe T, Lerch A, Nyandwi J, 
Koepfli C.

Antimalarial resistance, including failure of artemisinin combination therapy, 
is increasing in Africa. Molecular surveillance of markers of drug resistance is 
essential to monitoring drug resistance. Plasmodium falciparum isolates from 
Cibitoke Province, Burundi were sequenced for ten markers of resistance 
(including potential background markers conferring kelch 13-mediated artemisinin 
partial resistance) by Illumina or Nanopore sequencing. Plasmepsin-2 and mdr1 
copy number variations were typed by digital PCR. Among 157 isolates, no 
validated pfkelch13 mutations linked to artemisinin partial resistance (ART-R) 
were detected. However, a novel pfkelch13 mutation, A675T, was identified. A 
mutation in the same position (A675V) had been found and validated in 
neighboring Rwanda previously. Background mutations were frequent, including 
pffd D193Y (45.9%) and pfarps10 V127M (11.5%). Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) 
resistance was widespread, with quintuple haplotypes detected in 82.3% and 
sextuple haplotypes in 12.3% of mono-infections. The pfcrt IET triple mutant 
haplotype (94.9%) and pfmdr1 N-F-D mutant haplotype (57.9%) indicate sustained 
CQ resistance and efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine (AL). No pfpm2 
duplications but rare pfmdr1 amplifications (1.8%) were identified. These 
findings indicate substantial SP resistance, posing a threat to the efficacy of 
IPTp and SMC strategies in Burundi. The findings also show potential ART-R and 
partner drug resistance in Burundi, highlighting the need for strengthened 
surveillance and coordinated regional efforts to mitigate resistance and sustain 
malaria control.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.22.25330092
PMCID: PMC12262749
PMID: 40666336


10. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 23:2025.06.23.25330019. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.25330019.

Artemisinin resistant kelch13 R622I and RDT negativity approaching predominance 
in northern Ethiopia and emerging C580Y of African origin threaten falciparum 
malaria control.

Zeleke AJ, Fola AA, Tollefson GA, Niaré K, Leonetti A, Taropawala O, Marglous J, 
Crudale R, Brhane BG, Assefa A, Kiyuka P, Parr JB, Hailu A, Aemero M, Bailey JA.

The rise of antimalarial drug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum poses a major 
threat to malaria treatment, control, and elimination efforts. Mutations in the 
kelch13 ( k13 ) gene confer artemisinin partial resistance (ART-R), compromising 
the efficacy of combination therapies. In the Horn of Africa, the validated 
mutation k13 R622I has rapidly emerged in parallel with other mutations 
elsewhere in Eastern Africa. To monitor and inform control efforts, we conducted 
in-depth sampling where R622I was first detected, using molecular inversion 
probe (MIP) targeted sequencing of key resistance mutations and informative SNPs 
across the genome. Samples were collected for a year within two districts, 
Gondar Zuria and Tach Armachiho, representing different ecological zones in 
northwest Ethiopia. Among 903 people with P. falciparum malaria, we observed a 
markedly higher prevalence of R622I (44.3%) compared to earlier reports, with 
significantly higher prevalence in Gondar Zuria (52%) than in Tach Armachiho 
(40%; p<0.001). Alarmingly, the prevalence of histidine rich protein 2 (HRP2) 
based rapid diagnostic test (RDT) negativity was higher in R622I mutants 
compared to wild types (48.3% vs 30.7%; p<0.001). Furthermore, 98.2% of R622I 
samples carried the multidrug resistance protein 1 NFD haplotype associated with 
reduced susceptibility to lumefantrine. We also detected the k13 C580Y mutation 
in two patients (0.4%) from Gondar Zuria, the first report in the Horn of 
Africa. Identity-by-descent (IBD) analysis showed C580Y mutant parasites were 
likely clonal (IBD=1). Whole-genome sequencing confirmed their clonal nature and 
revealed flanking haplotypes distinct from those seen in Southeast Asia where 
the mutation was first observed, suggesting a local, de novo emergence. These 
findings highlight increasing prevalence and types of ART-R mutations and the 
concerning association now with RDT negativity that will further challenge 
malaria control and elimination efforts.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.25330019
PMCID: PMC12262759
PMID: 40666313


11. Malar J. 2025 Jul 15;24(1):232. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05359-w.

Investing in traditional medicine: leveraging evidence and innovative research 
to strengthen the fight against malaria in Nigeria.

Onukansi FO(1)(2), Anokwuru CC(1)(2), Eneh SC(3)(4)(5), Odey GO(6), Onah DO(7), 
Sokunbi T(8), Innocent DC(2), Dozie UW(2), Umoke PC(9), Ojo TO(10), Ezejindu 
CN(11).

Author information:
(1)Youth in Research Hub, Enugu State, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Public Health, Federal University of Technology Owerri, Owerri, 
Imo State, Nigeria.
(3)Youth in Research Hub, Enugu State, Nigeria. Stanleyeneh234@gmail.com.
(4)IVAN Research Institute, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Enugu State, Nigeria. 
Stanleyeneh234@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Community Health, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun, 
Nigeria. Stanleyeneh234@gmail.com.
(6)Departments of Public Health, College of Medical Science, University of 
Calabar, Calabar, Nigeria.
(7)Departments of Plant and Ecological Studies, University of Calabar, Calabar, 
Nigeria.
(8)Faculty of Pharmacy, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun, Nigeria.
(9)Department of Human Kinetics and Health Education, Faculty of Education, 
University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Enugu, Nigeria.
(10)Department of Community Health, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun, 
Nigeria.
(11)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, David Umahi 
Federal University of Health Sciences, Uburu, Ebonyi, Nigeria.

Traditional medicine (TM) has been a cornerstone of healthcare across various 
cultures, especially in Africa, where it has played an integral role in the 
management of diseases such as malaria. Despite the popularity and historical 
significance of TM, scientific validation remains a key challenge, hindering its 
widespread acceptance in modern healthcare systems. This study explores the 
potential of traditional African medicine, particularly in the context of 
Nigeria, as a vital resource in the fight against malaria. Drawing on the 
success of plants like Artemisia annua in the development of modern 
anti-malarial drugs, the research emphasizes the need for comprehensive 
investment in TM research. With Nigeria facing the highest malaria burden 
globally, the research advocates for increased funding, scientific 
investigations into the efficacy of traditional remedies, and enhanced 
regulation of herbal medicine. The paper also highlights the growing trust and 
reliance on herbal remedies in rural areas of Nigeria and the importance of 
ensuring their safety through pharmacological testing. This study examines these 
issues through an analysis of existing literature, historical applications, and 
documented successes of herbal treatments. By integrating traditional medicine 
into national health systems, Nigeria could unlock new strategies for combating 
malaria and other infectious diseases, advancing toward sustainable health 
outcomes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05359-w
PMID: 40665320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


12. BMC Infect Dis. 2025 Jul 15;25(1):921. doi: 10.1186/s12879-025-11266-x.

The resurgence of malaria in Northern Iran in 2023: a wake-up call.

Koohsar F(1), Faridnia R(1), Jorjani O(1), Hojjati MT(1), Yadagiri G(2), Noshak 
G(3), Pirzaman HT(3), Kalani H(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Sciences Research Center, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, 
Gorgan, Iran.
(2)Department of Veterinary Biosciences, The Ohio State University, Columbus, 
OH, USA.
(3)Infectious Diseases Research Center, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, 
Gorgan, Iran.
(4)Infectious Diseases Research Center, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, 
Gorgan, Iran. hamed.kalani@goums.ac.ir.

BACKGROUND: Control and elimination programs for malaria in Iran have 
consistently faced significant challenges due to various factors, including the 
presence of neighboring malaria-endemic countries such as Afghanistan and 
Pakistan. In recent years, Golestan Province in northern Iran has recorded few 
cases of imported malaria, with a sudden increase of 22 cases in 2023. This 
article provides an overview of the malaria situation in northern Iran, along 
with a detailed report of these 22 cases.
METHODS: The study population comprises all individuals exhibiting symptoms 
suspected of malaria (n = 445) who were referred to the Malaria Diagnosis Center 
in Golestan Province, located in northeastern Iran, for diagnosis between March 
23, 2023, and December 23, 2023. A drop of peripheral blood, collected from a 
finger prick of each patient, was utilized for Plasmodium falciparum/P. vivax 
antigen detection. Moreover, thin and thick smears were prepared for each 
patient to investigate morphological characteristics and parasitemia percentage 
of the parasites.
RESULTS: In total, 4.94% (22/445) of individuals with malaria-suspected symptoms 
were infected with Plasmodium species. All 22 infected individuals were native 
to Golestan Province, and none had a previous history. The mean ± standard error 
of mean (SEM) for the number of parasites/µL of blood sample was 16,029 ± 5,060 
for P. vivax and 105,460 ± 102,146 for P. falciparum. Among the patients, 77.27% 
(17/22) were infected with P. vivax, 18.18% (4/22) were infected with P. 
falciparum, and 4.54% (1/22) were co-infected with both P. vivax and P. 
falciparum. In the case of P. falciparum, 40% (1/5) of the samples presented the 
ring form, 60% (3/5) trophozoite form, and 20% (1/5) gametocyte form. All 
patients demonstrated a positive response to the treatment, with a decrease in 
both the number of parasites and the number of clinical symptoms over time.
CONCLUSIONS: This study discussed 22 cases of malaria diagnosed in 2023 in 
Golestan Province in northern Iran. Given the presence of malaria vectors in 
this area and the observation of gametocytes in specimens from some patients, 
the increase in reported malaria cases could be worrisome in terms of 
establishing local transmission in this area.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-025-11266-x
PMID: 40665230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study complied with the provisions of the Declaration of 
Helsinki and was approved by the ethics committee of Golestan University of 
Medical Sciences, with the following code: IR.GOUMS.REC.1402.500. Since the 
participants were patients who were referred for diagnosis and treatment of 
malaria, and their personal information remained confidential and would not be 
published, with the approval of the above-mentioned ethics committee, there was 
no need to obtain an informed consent form. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


13. BMC Nephrol. 2025 Jul 15;26(1):390. doi: 10.1186/s12882-025-04333-7.

Malaria associated pathogenesis of chronic kidney disease (MAP-CKD): a 
prospective study of children hospitalized with severe malaria.

Batte A(1)(2), Nakulima V(3), Namazzi R(3)(4), Aujo JC(5), Starr MC(6), 
Schwaderer AL(6), Lintner-Rivera M(7), Ahumwire A(3), Ogwal D(3), Tenywa E(8), 
Oyang W(9), Ssenkusu JM(3)(10), Bangirana P(3)(11), Idro R(3)(4), Kalyesubula 
R(12), Dreyer G(13), McCulloch M(14), Bassat Q(2)(15), John CC(7), Goldstein 
SL(16), Conroy AL(17)(18)(19).

Author information:
(1)Child Health and Development Centre, Makerere University College of Health 
Sciences, Kampala, Uganda.
(2)ISGlobal, Hospital Clínic - Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Global Health Uganda, Kampala, Uganda.
(4)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Makerere University College of 
Health Sciences, Kampala, Uganda.
(5)Department of Paediatrics, Mulago National Referral and Teaching Hospital, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(6)Department of Pediatric Nephrology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(7)Ryan White Center for Pediatric Infectious Disease and Global Health, Indiana 
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA.
(8)Jinja Regional Referral Hospital, Jinja, Uganda.
(9)Lira Regional Referral Hospital, Lira, Uganda.
(10)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Makerere University School of 
Public Health, Kampala, Uganda.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, Makerere University College of Health Sciences, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(12)Department of Physiology, Makerere University College of Health Sciences, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(13)Department of Nephrology, Barts Health NHS Trust, London, UK.
(14)Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, University of Cape Town, Cape 
Town, South Africa.
(15)Centro de Investigação em Saúde de Manhiça (CISM), Maputo, Mozambique.
(16)Division of Nephrology, Department of Pediatrics, Center for Acute Care 
Nephrology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(17)Global Health Uganda, Kampala, Uganda. conroya@iu.edu.
(18)Ryan White Center for Pediatric Infectious Disease and Global Health, 
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA. conroya@iu.edu.
(19), 1044 West Walnut St., Indianapolis, IN, 46404, USA. conroya@iu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Severe malaria (SM) remains a leading cause of child mortality and 
an important global contributor to acute kidney injury (AKI), which can progress 
to chronic kidney disease (CKD) in some survivors. Notably, 80% of AKI deaths 
occur in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC). Despite this burden, the 
mechanisms and recovery trajectory of SM associated AKI remain poorly 
understood. There is a critical need to define the etiology and pathophysiology 
of SM-AKI, uncover pathways of maladaptive repair, identify risk factors for 
CKD, and evaluate long-term health and development.
METHODS: This prospective multi-site cohort study will enroll children at three 
sites in Uganda: Mulago National Referral and Teaching Hospital, Jinja Regional 
Referral Hospital, and Lira Regional Referral Hospital. We aim to recruit 750 
children with severe malaria and 375 community controls between 3 months of age 
and < 16 years. Participants will be followed for two years. Children with 
severe malaria will be assessed at 1-, 2-, and 4-months to evaluate short-term 
kidney recovery and 12- and 24-months to assess kidney function and 
health-related quality of life. The study will investigate short-term and 
long-term kidney disease risk factors following severe malaria. We will 
characterize host pathways involved in maladaptive kidney repair, focusing on 
mechanisms related to cell stress, angiogenesis, and tubulointerstitial injury. 
Additionally, we will assess the impact of AKI and persistent kidney disease on 
morbidity, mortality, and health-related quality of life. Cognitive and 
behavioral assessments, along with brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), will 
be used to evaluate the effects of AKI on brain injury and edema.
DISCUSSION: This study will generate key insights into the prevalence of 
persistent kidney disease following SM-AKI and identify risk factors for CKD to 
inform clinical follow-up. Defining specific pathways involved with maladaptive 
repair in severe malaria will provide the foundation for targeted interventions 
to promote adaptive recovery. The research has the potential to transform 
long-term health outcomes following SM-AKI.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN10885288.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12882-025-04333-7
PMID: 40665227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study is approved by the Makerere University School of 
Biomedical Sciences Research Ethics Committee (SBS-REC, protocol number: 
SBS-2022-173), Indiana University School of Medicine Institutional Review Board 
(IUSM- IRB, protocol number: 15144) and the Uganda National Council for Science 
and Technology (UNCST, protocol number: HS2794ES). The study will be conducted 
in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements, as well as the general 
principles outlined in the International Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical 
Research Involving Human Participants and the Declaration of Helsinki. Consent 
for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


14. Parasitology. 2025 Jul 16:1-43. doi: 10.1017/S0031182025100310. Online ahead
of  print.

Plasmodium simium: birth and evolution of a zoonotic malaria parasite species.

de Albuquerque NRM(1)(2), Ladeia WA(1), Scalsky RJ(2), Dwivedi A(2), Stabler 
TC(2)(3)(4), Rodrigues PT(1)(5), de Oliveira TC(1)(6), Silva JC(2)(7)(8), 
Ferreira MU(1)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University of 
São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)Institute for Genome Sciences, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Parasitology and Infection Biology, Swiss Tropical and 
Public Health Institute, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(5)Brazilian Center for Research in Energy and Materials, Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(6)Department of Translational Medicine, School of Medical Sciences, University 
of Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(7)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Maryland School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(8)Global Health and Tropical Medicine (GHTM), Associate Laboratory in 
Translation and Innovation Towards Global Health (LA-REAL), Institute of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, NOVA University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal.

DOI: 10.1017/S0031182025100310
PMID: 40665206


15. Nat Microbiol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41564-025-02052-1. Online ahead of 
print.

Fighting malaria as a patient and scientist.

Tadesse FG(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Malaria and NTD Division, Armauer Hansen Research Institute, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia. fitsum.girma@ahri.gov.et.
(2)Department of Infection Biology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK. fitsum.girma@ahri.gov.et.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology, Radboudumc, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
fitsum.girma@ahri.gov.et.

DOI: 10.1038/s41564-025-02052-1
PMID: 40664972

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The author declares no 
competing interests.


16. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 16;15(1):25672. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-04784-w.

Automated multi-model framework for malaria detection using deep learning and 
feature fusion.

Shahin OR(1), Alshammari HH(2), Alabdali RN(3), Salaheldin AM(4), Saleh N(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, College of Computer and Information Sciences, 
Jouf University, Sakaka, Saudi Arabia. orshahin@ju.edu.sa.
(2)Department of Information Systems, College of Computer and Information 
Sciences, Jouf University, Sakaka, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Computer Science, College of Computer and Information Sciences, 
Jouf University, Sakaka, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Biomedical Engineering and Systems Department, Faculty of Engineering, Cairo 
University, Giza, Egypt.
(5)Biomedical Engineering Department, Faculty of Engineering and Technology, 
Future University in Egypt, New Cairo, Egypt. neven.saleh@fue.edu.eg.

Malaria remains a critical global health challenge, particularly in tropical and 
subtropical regions. While traditional methods for diagnosis are effective, they 
face some limitations related to accuracy, time consumption, and manual effort. 
This study proposes an advanced, automated diagnostic framework for malaria 
detection using a multi-model architecture integrating deep learning and machine 
learning techniques. The framework employs a transfer learning approach that 
incorporates ResNet 50, VGG16, and DenseNet-201 for feature extraction. This is 
followed by feature fusion and dimensionality reduction via principal component 
analysis. A hybrid scheme that combines support vector machine and long 
short-term memory networks is used for classification. A majority voting 
mechanism aggregates outputs from all models to enhance prediction robustness. 
The approach was validated on a publicly available dataset comprising 27,558 
microscopic thin blood smear images. The results demonstrated superior 
performance, achieving an accuracy of 96.47%, sensitivity of 96.03%, specificity 
of 96.90%, precision of 96.88%, and F1-score of 96.45% using the majority voting 
ensemble. Comparative analysis highlights the framework's advancements over 
existing methods in diagnostic reliability and computational efficiency. This 
work underscores the potential of AI-driven solutions in advancing malaria 
diagnostics and lays the foundation for applications in other blood-borne 
diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-04784-w
PMID: 40664727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


17. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 15;16(1):6512. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61462-1.

Marked heterogeneity in malaria infection rate in a Malian longitudinal cohort.

LaVerriere E(1)(2), Johnson ZM(1)(2), Shieh M(1)(2), Nziza N(3), Alter G(3), 
Buckee CO(4), Crompton PD(5), Traore B(6), Tran TM(7), Neafsey DE(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Infectious Disease and Microbiome Program, Broad Institute of MIT and 
Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(3)Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT, and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Malaria Infection Biology and Immunity Section, Laboratory of Immunogenetics, 
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Rockville, MD, USA.
(6)Mali International Center of Excellence in Research, University of Sciences, 
Technique and Technology of Bamako, Bamako, Mali.
(7)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(8)Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA, USA. neafsey@hsph.harvard.edu.
(9)Infectious Disease and Microbiome Program, Broad Institute of MIT and 
Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA. neafsey@hsph.harvard.edu.

Variation in malaria infection risk, a product of disease exposure and immunity, 
is poorly understood. We genotypically profiled over 13,000 blood samples from a 
six-year longitudinal cohort in Mali to characterize malaria infection dynamics 
with detail. We generated Plasmodium falciparum amplicon sequencing data from 
464 participants (aged 3 months - 25 years) across the six-month 2011 
transmission season and profiled a subset of 120 participants across the 
subsequent five annual transmission seasons. We measured infection rate as the 
molecular force of infection (molFOI, number of genetically distinct parasites 
acquired over time). We found that molFOI varied extensively among individuals 
(0-55 in 2011) but was independent of age and consistent within individuals over 
multiple seasons. Reported bednet usage was nearly universal. The HbS allele was 
associated with lower molFOI, and functional antibody signatures for the CSP 
C-term and RH5 antigens were correlated with low molFOI participants, 
identifying candidate immune correlates of protection. The large 
inter-individual variability in molFOI and consistency of intra-individual 
infection rate over time exhibits much greater dynamic range than malaria case 
incidence, and is most likely due to heterogeneous exposure to infectious 
mosquito bites. This and other factors contributing to variable infection risk 
should be considered in future clinical trials and implementation of malaria 
interventions.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61462-1
PMID: 40664687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


18. BMJ Glob Health. 2025 Jul 15;10(7):e017453. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2024-017453.

Essential aid made fully visible: understanding the proCHW financing landscape 
analysing accessible donor data sources.

Baskin C(1), Westgate CC(1), Shellaby L(2)(3), Ballard M(1)(4), Rogers A(5), 
Hofmann R(6), Raghavan M(7), Palazuelos D(8)(9), Lindsay S(10), Keronyai PP(11), 
French M(11), Ganjian N(12), Rapp S(13), Tiedt S(14), López Castañeda C(15), 
Nsubuga DN(16), Aidam J(17), Razafinjato B(18), O'Donovan J(19).

Author information:
(1)Community Health Impact Coalition, London, UK.
(2)LSS Global, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(4)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(5)Lwala Community Alliance, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(6)D-tree International, Norwell, Maryland, USA.
(7)Last Mile Health, Monrovia, Liberia.
(8)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(9)Partners In Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(10)Living Goods, San Francisco, California, USA.
(11)Nama Wellness Community Centre, Mukono, Uganda.
(12)Last Mile Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(13)Muso, Bamako, Mali.
(14)Imperial College London, London, UK.
(15)Last Mile Health, London, UK.
(16)TIP Global Health, Kigali, Rwanda.
(17)Catholic Relief Services, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(18)PIVOT, Ranomafana, Madagascar.
(19)James O'Donovan, Community Health Impact Coalition, Newcastle, UK 
James.odonovan@joinchic.org.

INTRODUCTION: Community health workers (CHWs) play a critical role in extending 
healthcare services to underserved populations, especially in low-income and 
middle-income countries. Professional CHWs (proCHWs), who are salaried, skilled, 
supplied and supervised, are essential for achieving Universal Health Coverage 
and other global health goals. Despite the growing recognition of proCHWs, there 
is limited understanding of the global financing landscape for these workers. 
This study analyses the availability of data detailing the allocation of funding 
from major global development organisations for proCHWs.
METHODS: The study was conducted by the Community Health Impact Coalition (CHIC) 
using a two-stage approach. First, eight major global funders were selected 
through a consultative process with CHIC members, chosen based on their 
perceived influence, leadership in community health and scale of financial 
commitments. The second stage involved mapping and analysing the funding 
availability of these organisations through desk reviews, brief consultations 
and analysis of public funding databases. The transparency of proCHW-specific 
funding data was assessed using a classification system: 'yes' (full 
availability), 'partial' (moderate availability) and 'no' (low/no availability).
RESULTS: The analysis revealed a gap in accessible data required to quantify the 
funding for CHWs, particularly proCHWs, across the eight organisations. Only two 
organisations, The Global Fund and the President's Malaria Initiative, provided 
partial data visibility, while none fully disclosed specific funding amounts for 
proCHW programmes. Most organisations did not systematically track or report CHW 
investments, making it challenging to assess global funding flows.
CONCLUSIONS: The study highlights gaps in the availability of data related to 
funding for proCHWs, hampering the ability to track and evaluate investments in 
proCHW programmes. The study recommends global funders improve the specificity 
of their data reporting and integrate proCHW indicators into standard reporting 
tools. Enhanced data reporting is essential for optimising investments in proCHW 
programmes and advancing global health equity.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2024-017453
PMID: 40664431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


19. Immunity. 2025 Jul 9:S1074-7613(25)00283-3. doi:
10.1016/j.immuni.2025.06.014.  Online ahead of print.

Systems analysis of clinical malaria reveals proteomic perturbation and 
innate-adaptive crosstalk linked to disease severity.

Lautenbach MJ(1), Wyss K(2), Yman V(3), Foroogh F(2), Satarvandi D(4), Mousavian 
Z(2), Sondén K(5), Wang J(6), Álvez MB(7), Bergström S(7), Nilsson P(7), Edfors 
F(7), Brodin P(6), Uhlén M(7), Sundling C(8), Färnert A(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Department of Infectious Diseases, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: julius.lautenbach@ki.se.
(2)Department of Medicine Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Department of Infectious Diseases, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Medicine Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Department of Infectious Diseases, Södersjukhuset, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Infectious Disease Epidemiology & Analytics Unit, Department of Global Health, 
Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.
(4)Department of Medicine Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Medicine Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Public Health Agency of Sweden, Department for Microbiology, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(6)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Department of Protein Science, SciLifeLab, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)Department of Medicine Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Department of Infectious Diseases, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: christopher.sundling@ki.se.
(9)Department of Medicine Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Department of Infectious Diseases, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: anna.farnert@ki.se.

Malaria presents with varying degrees of severity. To improve clinical 
management and prevention, it is crucial to understand the pathogenesis and host 
response. We analyzed 1,463 plasma proteins during and after acute Plasmodium 
falciparum malaria in adult travelers and linked responses to peripheral immune 
cells by integrating with single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data from a 
subset of donors. We identified extensive perturbations in over 250 proteins 
with diverse origins, including many not previously analyzed in malaria 
patients, such as hormones, circulating receptors, and intracellular or 
membrane-bound proteins from affected tissues. The protein profiles clustered 
participants according to disease severity, enabling the identification of a 
compressed 11-protein signature enriched in severe malaria. Conceptually, this 
study advances our understanding of malaria by linking systemic proteomic 
changes to immune cell communication and organ-specific responses. This 
resource, which includes an interactive platform to explore data, opens new 
avenues for hypothesis generation, biomarker discovery, and therapeutic target 
identification.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2025.06.014
PMID: 40664217

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


20. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2025 Jul 15:tpmd250114. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.25-0114. Online
 ahead of print.

Plasmodium falciparum Kelch13 Variants and Histidine-Rich Protein 2/3 Deletions 
in Central Ethiopia, 2023.

Tufa TB(1)(2)(3), Oliveira R(4), Schallenberg E(4), Hendry JA(5), Igiraneza 
C(6), Jara-Reznakova B(1)(3), Eggers Y(1)(3), Sill H(1)(3), Kenea D(1)(2), 
Luedde T(1)(3), Feldt T(1)(3), Ndoli JM(6), Mockenhaupt FP(4), van Loon W(4).

Author information:
(1)Hirsch Institute of Tropical Medicine, Asella, Ethiopia.
(2)College of Health Sciences, Arsi University, Asella, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Infectious Diseases, 
University Hospital Düsseldorf, Heinrich Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(4)Charité Center for Global Health, Institute of International Health, 
Charité-Universitaetsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Malaria Parasite Biology, Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology, Berlin, 
Germany.
(6)University Teaching Hospital of Butare, Huye, Rwanda.

Ethiopia faces an increase in Plasmodium falciparum resistant to rapid 
diagnostic test (RDT) detection based on histidine-rich proteins (HRPs) because 
of deletions of the encoding genes (pfhrp2/3). Simultaneously, P. falciparum 
Kelch13 (pfk13) artemisinin partial resistance markers, particularly R622I, are 
common in northern and western Ethiopia. We assessed pfhrp2/3, pfk13, and 
Plasmodium falciparum multidrug resistance 1 (pfmdr1) variants among 220 
symptomatic malaria patients presenting at health facilities in central Ethiopia 
in 2023. Plasmodium falciparum infection was present in 86.4%, Plasmodium vivax 
infection was present in 12.3%, and Plasmodium ovale infection was present in 
3.6% of collected isolates. Among P. falciparum infections, the validated 
artemisinin partial resistance marker pfk13 R622I occurred in 1.1% (n = 2/174), 
and candidate marker P441L occurred in 1.7% (n = 3/174). pfhrp2, pfhrp3, and 
dual deletions were seen in 24.0% (n = 36/150), 78.8% (n = 118/150), and 22.7% 
(n = 34/150), respectively. The pfmdr1 pattern indicated reduced lumefantrine 
sensitivity. These data suggest that high proportions of P. falciparum 
infections are being missed by HRP-based RDTs, whereas pfk13 mutations are 
relatively rare.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.25-0114
PMID: 40664184


21. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2025 Jul 22;122(29):e2424630122. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2424630122. Epub 2025 Jul 15.

A population genetic analysis of the nematode Strongyloides stercoralis in Asia 
shows that human infection is not a zoonosis from dogs.

Liu Y(1), Sarker AHMR(2), Sripa B(3), Tangkawattana S(4), Khieu V(5), Nevin 
W(6)(7)(8), Paterson S(1), Viney M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Evolution, Ecology and Behaviour, The University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool L69 7ZB, United Kingdom.
(2)Institute of Forestry and Environmental Sciences, University of Chittagong, 
Chattogram 4331, Bangladesh.
(3)Department of Tropical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Tropical Disease 
Research Center, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen 40002, Thailand.
(4)Department of Pathobiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Tropical Disease 
Research Center, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen 40002, Thailand.
(5)National Center for Parasitology, Entomology and Malaria Control, Ministry of 
Health, Phnom Penh 120801, Cambodia.
(6)Department of Clinical Sciences, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, 
Liverpool L3 5QA, United Kingdom.
(7)Department of Infectious Diseases, Imperial College, London SW7 2AZ, United 
Kingdom.
(8)Academic Department of Military Medicine, Royal Centre for Defence Medicine, 
Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham B15 2WB, United Kingdom.

Gut nematode worms are important parasites of people and other animals. The 
parasitic nematode Strongyloides stercoralis infects an estimated 600 million 
people worldwide and is one of the soil-transmitted helminthiases, a WHO-defined 
neglected tropical disease. It has long been suggested that human S. stercoralis 
infection may be a zoonosis from dogs. We investigated this by whole genome 
sequence analysis of S. stercoralis from sympatric human and dog populations in 
Asia. We find that human- and dog-derived S. stercoralis have genetically 
distinct nuclear genomes, but we also find evidence of rare cross-infection. 
Analysis of the S. stercoralis mitochondrial genome reveals evidence of 
historical introgression between human- and dog-derived parasites. Based on 
these data, we suggest that S. stercoralis was originally a parasite of canids, 
that began to infect humans when people domesticated dogs, since when human- and 
dog-derived parasites have differentiated, but have not become separate species.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2424630122
PMID: 40663613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:The authors 
declare no competing interest.


22. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2025 Jul 15;19(7):e0013300. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0013300. eCollection 2025 Jul.

Engaging communities in the control of arboviral diseases: insights from the 
African region.

Yahouédo AG(1), Merle CS(1), Chanda E(2), Rabe IB(3), Fouque F(1), Rojas DP(3), 
Aseffa A(1), Halleux CM(1), Velayudhan R(4).

Author information:
(1)UNICEF/UNDP/World Bank/WHO Special Programme for Research and Training in 
Tropical Diseases (TDR), World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Global Malaria Programme, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Health Emergencies Programme, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Control of Neglected Tropical Diseases, World Health 
Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0013300
PMID: 40663592

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


23. Int J Environ Health Res. 2025 Jul 15:1-28. doi:
10.1080/09603123.2025.2533346.  Online ahead of print.

Systematic literature review of bacterial larvicides Bacillus thuringiensis var 
israelensis and Bacillus (Lysinibacillus) sphaericus for malaria control in 
Africa.

Mataba GR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Materials, Energy, Water and Environmental Sciences (MEWES), The 
Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology (NM-AIST), Arusha, 
Tanzania.

A systematic review of the scientific literature was conducted with the 
objective of finding evidence on the contribution of microbial larvicides, 
Bacillus thuringiensis var israelensis and Bacillus sphaericus, in clinical 
malaria burden in Africa. A systematic literature search was carried out using 
databases PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, ProQuest, and BASE, and Google, and 
Google Scholar search engines. All results were screened for duplicates and 
assessed for eligibility. Relevant data were extracted, and a quality assessment 
was performed using the CONSORT 2010 checklist, funnel plot, and Egger's 
regression test. Results show that 54 studies satisfied the eligibility 
criteria, and most were small-scale field trials. Most studies reported that 
Bti/Bs reduced the density of larvae of primary malaria vectors by 50%-100%. 
However, only 14 studies reported a subsequent reduction of malaria incidences, 
which was 31-62%. Furthermore, only one study evaluated the outcome of including 
Bti in a large-scale countrywide routine malaria control program, and it was in 
São Tomé and Príncipe. Overall, reviewed studies revealed a serious lack of 
Bti/Bs large-scale studies, and Bti/Bs inclusion in routine malaria control 
programs in most African countries. This impedes the formulation of 
evidence-based public health policies and frameworks for malaria elimination on 
the continent.

DOI: 10.1080/09603123.2025.2533346
PMID: 40662945


24. Front Glob Womens Health. 2025 Jun 30;6:1599842. doi:
10.3389/fgwh.2025.1599842.  eCollection 2025.

Do dietary habits and iron-folic acid intake make a difference? Factors 
associated with anemia in pregnancy: a multi-center cross-sectional study.

Chillo SL(1), Woldesemayat EM(1), Dangisso MH(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Hawassa 
University, Hawassa, Sidama, Ethiopia.
(2)Ethiopian Public Health Institute, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Anemia in pregnancy impacts the well-being of the women and the 
conception. Anemia is associated with increased risks of maternal mortality. In 
Ethiopia, three in ten pregnant women were affected by either mild, moderate, or 
severe anemia. The recent evidence was limited in the study locations of 
southern Ethiopia and needs to be updated. No report of anemia as relation to 
dietary factors observed in the region. This study therefore aimed to assess 
factors associated with anemia in pregnancy in the region.
METHODS: A multicenter, cross-sectional study was conducted from January 2 to 
30, 2025, in five selected public health facilities in Arba Minch district, 
South Ethiopia.
RESULTS: A total of 476 (96%) respondents had participated in the survey. 
Explanatory variables were modeled in logistic regression to test for 
statistical associations at a P value of <0.05. The study participants were in 
the age range of 18 to 40 years. Of the respondents who completed the survey, 
103 (21.6%, 95%CI 18.2-25.6%) were diagnosed as anemic. Participants who 
received iron-folic acid during the current pregnancy were 66% less likely to be 
anemic, AOR (95% CI), 0.34 (0.19, 0.61). Participants with high education 
status, sleeping under insecticide-treated bed nets (ITN), not being infected 
with malaria in the current pregnancy, and age category between 20-29 years were 
less likely to experience anemia in pregnancy. Evidence was limited to support 
association of women dietary diversity score (WDDS) and anemia in pregnancy, AOR 
(95%CI), 0.83 (0.49, 1.40).
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS: Anemia prevalence was a moderate public health 
problem in the study area. Healthcare workers should encourage antenatal women 
to receive iron and sleep under insecticide-treated bed nets (ITN) for anemia 
protection during pregnancy.

© 2025 Chillo, Woldesemayat and Dangisso.

DOI: 10.3389/fgwh.2025.1599842
PMCID: PMC12256233
PMID: 40662142

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


25. Int J Microbiol. 2025 Jul 7;2025:3257549. doi: 10.1155/ijm/3257549.
eCollection  2025.

Blood Donor Serological Screening in Makkah, Saudi Arabia: A 7-Year 
Retrospective Study on Transfusion-Transmitted Infections.

Halawani AJ(1), Hawsawi AJ(1), Jaber LA(1), Kabrah SM(1), Maghrabi TM(2), 
Alobaid KM(2), Kaki AA(2), Aljabri AM(2), Alsaedi AS(2), Alharbi MM(2), Alhazmi 
AF(2), Alsaedi HA(2), Almalki AS(2), Alharthi FA(2), Almalki YH(2), Alotaibi 
AM(2), Abu-Harba RM(2), Arbaeen AF(1), Malak HA(3), Sabbag MO(4), Alnabati 
RO(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, Faculty of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Laboratory and Blood Bank, King Abdulaziz Hospital, Ministry of 
Health, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Applied Science, Umm Al-Qura University, 
Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Central Blood Bank Department, Health Affairs in Makkah Region, Saudi Arabia 
Ministry of Health (MOH), Makkah, Saudi Arabia.

Introduction: Screening donated blood for transfusion-transmitted infections 
(TTIs) is a critical component of transfusion safety, particularly in 
high-demand regions such as Makkah City, Saudi Arabia. This study is aimed at 
assessing the seroprevalence of TTI markers among blood donors at King Abdulaziz 
Hospital-Makkah (KAHM) over a 7-year period. Methods: In this retrospective 
study, 17,661 individuals who donated blood at the KAHM, Saudi Arabia, from 
January 2017 to December 2023, were included. The prevalence of TTI markers was 
assessed and categorized by year, gender, age, type of donors (whole blood and 
apheresis), and category of donation (replacement and volunteer). In addition to 
ABO group testing, commercially available kits were used for serological tests. 
Results: Among donors, 74 (0.42%) were reactive for HBsAg, 1419 (8.03%) for 
HBcAb, and 1295 (7.33%) for HBsAb. Other reactive cases included HCV (0.29%), 
HIV (0.06%), HTLV-I/II (0.05%), and syphilis (0.44%). No cases of malaria were 
reported. Statistically significant variations were observed across years for 
HBsAg (p = 0.007), HBsAb, and HBcAb (p < 0.001), suggesting changes in infection 
exposure, immunity, or donor screening efficiency. Male donors represented 
97.17% of the cohort, and replacement donors were more prevalent (54.75%) than 
volunteers. Conclusion: The overall prevalence of TTIs among blood donors in 
Makkah was low, affirming the effectiveness of current screening protocols. 
However, the relatively high prevalence of hepatitis B core antibodies indicates 
prior exposure among a notable proportion of donors. Yearly fluctuations in 
seropositivity suggest evolving epidemiological patterns, warranting continuous 
surveillance and targeted public health interventions.

Copyright © 2025 Amr J. Halawani et al. International Journal of Microbiology 
published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1155/ijm/3257549
PMCID: PMC12259301
PMID: 40662088

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


26. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2025 Jun 30;15:1592281. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2025.1592281. eCollection 2025.

Majority of the erythrocyte binding proteins of the Pvfam "a" family of 
Plasmodium vivax interact with Basigin to assist parasite entry into the host 
cell.

Tripathi M(1), Santoshi M(1), Sharma YD(1), Rathore S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi, India.

Molecular mechanisms of red cell invasion by the Plasmodium vivax parasite 
remain obscure since information on receptor-ligand interaction is scarce. 
Several proteins of the P. vivax Pvfam "a" family are known to bind with host 
erythrocytes. Some of them share their erythrocyte receptors with each other and 
vice versa, but the identification of these receptors is awaited with the 
exception of PvTRAg38. Here, we demonstrate by using solid-phase binding assay 
and surface plasmon resonance that majority (7 out of 10) of these erythrocyte 
binding proteins (PvTRAg, PvTRAg33.5, PvTRAg35.2, PvTRAg34, PvTRAg36, PvTRAg38, 
and PvTRAg69.4) interact with the erythrocyte receptor Basigin. These 
interactions seem to be important for the parasite's survival since each of 
these proteins interfered with the parasite's growth in a heterologous culture 
system. Furthermore, a higher parasite growth inhibition rate was observed with 
the combination of these proteins, suggesting the significance of multiple 
parasite ligand's interaction with the same erythrocyte receptor during the 
invasion process. These results will be helpful in understanding P. vivax 
biology and developing the therapeutics for vivax malaria.

Copyright © 2025 Tripathi, Santoshi, Sharma and Rathore.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2025.1592281
PMCID: PMC12256428
PMID: 40661968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


27. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2025 Jun 30;15:1561806. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2025.1561806. eCollection 2025.

CD8(+) T cells promote tubule-interstitial damage in malaria-induced acute 
kidney injury.

Teixeira DE(1), Alves SADS(1), Pinheiro AS(2), Silva LS(3), Silva-Aguiar RP(1), 
Peruchetti DB(4), Pádua TA(5), Souza MC(5), Caruso-Neves C(1)(6)(7), Pinheiro 
AAS(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Biofísica Carlos Chagas Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Department of Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, University Hospitals 
Cleveland Medical Center, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, United 
States.
(3)Division of Infectious Diseases and Immunology, Department of Medicine, 
University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.
(4)Departamento de Fisiologia e Biofísica, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(5)Instituto de Tecnologia em Fármacos, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.
(6)Rio de Janeiro Innovation Network in Nanosystems for Health, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.
(7)National Institute of Science and Technology for Regenerative Medicine, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Malaria acute kidney injury (MAKI) is associated with severe 
malaria and correlates with poor prognosis and death of patients infected with 
Plasmodium falciparum. The pathogenesis of MAKI is not completely understood but 
some hypotheses are well recognized. Host-parasite interactions lead to 
mechanical obstruction, disorders in the renal microcirculation, and 
immune-mediated glomerular injury. We investigated the influence of CD8⁺ T cells 
in the pathogenesis of malaria-induced renal disease.
METHODS: To assess the role of T lymphocytes in MAKI pathogenesis, we used 
adoptive transfer; antibody-driven CD8+ T cells depletion and treatment with 
FYT720.
RESULTS: The transference of total T cells isolated from malaria-infected donor 
mice into naive recipient animals reproduced kidney tubule-interstitial damage 
without affecting glomerular function. It was associated with increased 
accumulation of CD8+ T cells in the kidneys of recipient mice. The selective 
depletion of CD8+ T cells in infected animals resulted in protection from 
tubular injury, although glomerular alterations still occurred. Finally, we 
evaluated FTY720, an immunomodulatory drug that sequesters T cells in lymphoid 
organs and limits their migration, as a potential therapeutic strategy. 
Treatment with FTY720 prevented the development of proteinuria and the increase 
in the urine to creatinine ratio. Moreover, FTY720 reduced urinary γ-glutamyl 
transferase (γ-GT) levels, a marker of tubular injury, but did not alter plasma 
urea and creatinine, two markers of glomerular function.
DISCUSSION: Our results add new knowledge demonstrating that CD8+ T cells have a 
specific role in tubule-interstitial injury pathology during MAKI.

Copyright © 2025 Teixeira, Alves, Pinheiro, Silva, Silva-Aguiar, Peruchetti, 
Pádua, Souza, Caruso-Neves and Pinheiro.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2025.1561806
PMCID: PMC12257197
PMID: 40661967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


28. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 26:2025.05.21.655408. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.21.655408.

Malaria parasite population genomics during an elimination program in Eastern 
Myanmar.

Li X, Arya GA, Thu AM, Landier J, Parker DM, Delmas G, Reyes A, Lwin KM, 
Sriprawat K, Nosten F, Anderson TJC.

BACKGROUND: We investigated parasite population genomics during an intensive 
malaria elimination program in Kayin State (Myanmar), in which malaria posts 
were used for rapid detection and treatment of malaria cases, while mass drug 
administration (MDA) was used in villages with high submicroscopic reservoirs.
METHODS: We collected 5014 dried blood spots from Plasmodium falciparum infected 
patients from 413 malaria posts, over 58-months (November 2015 - August 2020), 
and sequenced 2270 parasite genomes, each with geographic references (latitude 
and longitude). We used identity-by-descent (IBD) relationships to examine how 
control efforts impact parasite population structure.
FINDINGS: Parasites were genetically depauperate: 1726 single-genotype 
infections comprised 166 unique genomes (≥90% IBD), while nine families (≥45% 
IBD) accounted for 62·5% of parasites sampled. We observed localized, temporally 
stable transmission of unique parasite genotypes, identifying transmission 
chains. Parasite relatedness was positively correlated up to approximately 20 km 
revealing the scale of parasite subpopulations. Kelch13 diversity was stable 
from 2016-2019, but only one predominant clonal genotype ( kelch13 -R561H) 
remained in 2020. MDA resulted in parasite founder effects, providing genomic 
evidence for the efficacy of this malaria control tool.
INTERPRETATION: Our genomic data show that parasite population size decreased 
over the study period, and we observed regional distribution of parasite 
genotypes, which can define operational units for parasite control. One parasite 
genotype ( kelch13 -R561H) from the north rose to high frequency in 2020, 
because transmission was halted elsewhere in the control area. Future 
surveillance will reveal whether this genotype spreads to neighboring regions. 
Genetic drift may have a stronger impact on parasite population structure than 
selection in low-transmission elimination settings.
FUNDING: National Institutes of Health; Wellcome Trust; Global Fund to Fight 
against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
RESEARCH IN CONTEXT: Evidence before this study: This study describes the 
genomic analysis of malaria parasites collected during a malaria elimination 
program targeting four townships (Myawaddy, Kawkareik, Hlaingbwe, and Hpapun) in 
Kayin State, eastern Myanmar. We searched PubMed on May 10, 2025, using the 
terms: "malaria", "transmission", "drug resistance", "southeast Asia" and 
"genetic surveillance" without any date or language restrictions. Our search 
yielded 58 publications, including reports on declined immunity to malaria and 
increased drug resistance in southeast Asia; genetic diversity and population 
structure shaped by mass drug administration, transmission intensity, human 
movement and mosquito ecology; and the spread of kelch13 and pfcrt mutations 
conferring dihydroartemimsinin-piperaquine resistance in east southeast Asia 
countries. Added value of this study: We sequenced and analyzed 2270 Plasmodium 
falciparum whole genomes (each with geographic location) collected between 
November 2015 and August 2020 in Kayin State. We described fine-scale molecular 
epidemiology changes during intense malaria elimination interventions. We 
observed localized, temporally stable transmission of parasite genotypes, with 
different parasite families and kelch13 haplotypes predominating in different 
subregions over the 5-year period. We found kelch13 haplotypes with local or 
regional origin, but none originating from eastern southeast Asia. The genomic 
data indicated decreasing parasite population size, but we observed no selection 
towards drug-resistance parasites. In 2020, only one predominant lineage ( 
kelch13 -R561H) remained in our studying region, consistent with genetic drift 
in a pre-elimination setting. Implications of all the available evidence: The 
parasite population was genetically depauperate, with a spatially localized and 
temporally stable distribution of parasite lineages, and declining population 
size. In this situation genetic drift may play a heightened role in parasite 
epidemiology. Consistent with this, parasites carrying kelch13 -R561H rose to 
high frequency in 2020, because transmission was eliminated in all regions 
except the north of Kayin State, where parasites bearing this kelch13 genotype 
have predominated since 2017. Future surveillance will determine whether this 
parasite genotype is transmitted to neighboring regions, and thus related to 
changes in P. falciparum drug resistance dynamics on the Thailand Myanmar 
border. These data illustrate how genetic drift in small populations can result 
in instantaneous changes in the resistance status of parasite populations in 
near elimination settings.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.21.655408
PMCID: PMC12258800
PMID: 40661555


29. Case Rep Med. 2025 Jul 2;2025:1035584. doi: 10.1155/carm/1035584. eCollection
 2025.

A Rare Presentation of Plasmodium vivax Malaria: Pancytopenia due to 
Hemophagocytic Syndrome in a Pregnant Woman.

Lema GD(1), Dagnaw AB(1), Gebeyaw ED(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Asrat Woldeyes Health 
Science Campus, Debre Berhan University, Debre Berhan, Ethiopia.
(2)School of Public Health, Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Asrat 
Woldeyes Health Science Campus, Debre Berhan University, Debre Berhan, Ethiopia.

Background: Malaria poses a significant public health challenge, especially in 
pregnant women, due to potential complications for both mother and fetus. The 
occurrence of pancytopenia as an initial manifestation of acute Plasmodium vivax 
malaria is extremely rare, with most cases reported in Plasmodium falciparum (P. 
falciparum) malaria infections. To the best of our knowledge, there are no 
documented cases of pancytopenia due to hemophagocytic syndrome (HPS) associated 
to P. vivax malaria in pregnant women. Case Presentation: A 22-year-old gravida 
one woman from Debre Berhan, Ethiopia, who was nine weeks pregnant, presented 
with a high-grade fever, headache, nausea, vomiting, joint pain, and fatigue 
lasting for 1 week. She had recently traveled to a malaria-endemic region. Upon 
examination and investigation, she was found to be hypotensive and febrile, with 
pale conjunctiva, hepatosplenomegaly, and pancytopenia, along with elevated 
levels of triglycerides and serum ferritin. Blood smear analysis showed the 
trophozoite and gametocyte stages of P. vivax. She was diagnosed with HPS based 
on clinical criteria. The patient achieved full recovery following antimalarial 
and supportive treatment. Conclusion: This case highlights a rare but serious 
presentation of P. vivax malaria in a pregnant woman, characterized by HPS and 
resultant pancytopenia. Timely diagnosis and effective treatment are crucial for 
achieving good outcomes for both the mother and the fetus, highlighting the 
importance of increased awareness in clinical practice.

Copyright © 2025 Girma Deshimo Lema et al. Case Reports in Medicine published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1155/carm/1035584
PMCID: PMC12256171
PMID: 40661319

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


30. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 21:2025.05.20.25327477. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.20.25327477.

Building contextually-relevant training programs for scientific development: 
process and lessons learned in implementing two iterations of a faculty 
enrichment program in applied malaria modeling.

Onyango L, Ouédraogo-Ametchie G, Stahlfeld A, Holden TM, Richter R, Runge M, Toh 
KB, Agorinya I, Mensah B, Gerardin J.

BACKGROUND: Mathematical modeling can be a useful approach to explore potential 
impact of malaria interventions and thereby inform resource prioritization 
decisions. However, expertise for applied modeling for public health 
decision-making is limited in malaria-endemic countries. A 4-month faculty 
enrichment program (FEP) in applied malaria modeling was implemented at 
Northwestern University, USA, in 2022 and 2023 with components including 
technical skills development, communication skills development, and domain 
knowledge on malaria epidemiology.
METHODS: Two cohorts of FEP participants and instructors were interviewed at 
baseline, midline, and endline to understand their expectations, experiences, 
and challenges with the program.
RESULTS: Participants valued their growth in technical expertise, research 
skills, and communication ability, as well as clear opportunities for knowledge 
transfer at their home institutions. Participants reported challenges with 
cross-disciplinary learning, balancing program components, and adapting to new 
teaching and learning styles. Instructors adapted program structures and 
teaching approaches to adjust to participant needs and reported strengthening of 
their own technical capacity.
CONCLUSION: Training programs for technical skill development must be informed 
by the needs and priorities of prospective participants and include continuous 
feedback mechanisms to respond to emerging needs. Multi-pronged approaches 
increase long-term program value to participants and help establish pathways for 
knowledge transfer.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.20.25327477
PMCID: PMC12258765
PMID: 40661278


31. Zhonghua Yi Shi Za Zhi. 2025 May 28;55(3):158-166. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112155-20230719-00005.

[The prevention and treatment of epidemic diseases in Weisheng Bao].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Lu ZJ(1), Chen LY(1), Li YR(1), Bai YW(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Science,Technology and Humanities,Shanghai University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine,Shanghai 201203,China.

Weisheng Bao(The Health News), as a journal of traditional Chinese medicine in 
the period of the Republic of China, was first published in Shanghai in December 
1927. One of its most popular and distinctive topics was "to prevent and treat 
the epidemic diseases with traditional Chinese Medicine ". Weisheng Bao examined 
and discussed the diseases, such as salix, cholera, dysentery, scarlet fever, 
malaria, tuberculosis and plague by collecting the experiences of well-known 
physicians, integrating medical theories of China and the west and considering 
local characteristics during epidemic periods. It took diverse measures to 
satisfy the needs of the public, such as theory discussion, drug advertisement, 
medical knowledge, policy news and describing medical cases. The content of 
Weisheng Bao focused on etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, prescription and case 
studies, with special issues sometimes. The section of disease prevention 
involved urban construction, disinfection and sterilization, food and water 
sources and air cleaning. It was found that Weisheng Bao innovated based on 
traditional Chinese medicine, integrated Chinese medicine with western medicine, 
paid attention to environment and faced the public. This can provide references 
for the prevention and treatment of epidemic diseases today.

Publisher: 
1927年12月，中医期刊《卫生报》创刊于上海，“中医疫病防治”是其中讨论较多又最具特色的内容之一。在民国疫情流行期间，《卫生报》荟萃名医经验，融汇中西学理，结合地域特点，对花柳、霍乱、痢疾、猩红热、疟疾、肺痨、鼠疫等多种疫病进行了探讨。其形式丰富多样，以理论探讨为主，并设有药物广告、医药常识、政策新闻、名医验案等。治病内容包括病因病机、察病诊断、论治方药、案例探讨等，设有特刊与专刊；防病内容包括城市建设、消毒杀菌、饮食水源、空气清洁等，体现了“循古创新、衷中参西、注重环境卫生以及面向民众”的疫病防治特色。研究民国中医期刊中的疫病防治的内容，以冀为当今新发、突发传染性疾病的防治提供线索与思路。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112155-20230719-00005
PMID: 40660998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Malar J. 2025 Jul 14;24(1):231. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05473-9.

Efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine, artesunate-amodiaquine, 
dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine and artesunate-pyronaridine for the treatment of 
uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Mozambique, 2022.

Nhama A(1)(2)(3), Chidimatembue A(4), Nhamussua L(4), Bassat 
Q(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), da Silva C(4), Nhacolo A(4), Arnaldo P(11), Salvador 
C(11), Cassy A(11), Candrinho B(12), Dimene M(12), Carvalho E(13), Saifodine 
A(14), Wate F(14), Mucavele H(14), Torres-Mendoza Y(15), Horton B(16)(17), 
Plucinski M(16), Cistero P(6), Mayor A(4)(6)(10)(18), Aide P(4)(11).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigação em Saúde de Manhiça (CISM), Rua 12, Vila da Manhiça, 
C.P. 1929, Maputo, Mozambique. abel.nhama@manhica.net.
(2)Instituto Nacional de Saúde, Ministério da Saúde, Maputo, Mozambique. 
abel.nhama@manhica.net.
(3)Facultat de Medicina i Ciències de la Salut, Universitat de Barcelona (UB), 
Barcelona, Spain. abel.nhama@manhica.net.
(4)Centro de Investigação em Saúde de Manhiça (CISM), Rua 12, Vila da Manhiça, 
C.P. 1929, Maputo, Mozambique.
(5)Facultat de Medicina i Ciències de la Salut, Universitat de Barcelona (UB), 
Barcelona, Spain.
(6)ISGlobal, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)ICREA, Pg. Lluís Companys 23, 08010, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Institut Clínic de Medicina I Dermatologia, Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Pediatrics Department, Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Esplugues, Barcelona, Spain.
(10)CIBER de Epidemiología y Salud Pública, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 
Madrid, Spain.
(11)Instituto Nacional de Saúde, Ministério da Saúde, Maputo, Mozambique.
(12)Programa Nacional de Controlo da Malária, Ministério da Saúde, Maputo, 
Mozambique.
(13)Comité Consultivo Técnico Para a Malária, Ministério da Saúde, Maputo, 
Mozambique.
(14)United States President's Malaria Initiative, United States Agency for 
International Development, Maputo, Mozambique.
(15)US President's Malaria Initiative and Malaria Branch, Division of Parasitic 
Diseases and Malaria, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Maputo, 
Mozambique.
(16)U.S. President's Malaria Initiative, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(17)Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education, Oak Ridge, TN, USA.
(18)Faculty of Medicine, Universidade Eduardo Mondlane, Maputo, Mozambique.

BACKGROUND: Artemether-lumefantrine (AL) and artesunate-amodiaquine (AS-AQ) are 
the first-line treatments against malaria in Mozambique. 
Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) has been used in-country for mass drug 
administration campaigns, and artesunate-pyronaridine (AS-PY) is considered an 
alternative drug to delay AL resistance in the country. To assess whether AL and 
AS-AQ remain efficacious and to confirm that DP and AS-PY are potential 
alternatives for uncomplicated malaria treatment, an in vivo therapeutic 
efficacy study was conducted in Mozambique at five sentinel sites.
METHODS: This study was conducted in the districts of Montepuez (AL), Dondo (AL 
and AS-AQ), Mopeia (AL and AS-PY), Moatize (AL and AS-AQ), and Massinga (AL and 
DP) following the 2009 World Health Organization (WHO)-recommended protocol. 
Patients aged 6 months to 11 years with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum 
malaria (1000-200,000 parasites/µl) were enrolled, followed, and assessed for 
28 days (AL and AS-AQ) or 42 days (DP and AS-PY). Genotyping for 
msp1/msp2/poly-α markers and match counting via the WHO/Medicines for Malaria 
Venture (MMV) 3/3 algorithm were used to differentiate recrudescences from new 
infections. The primary outcome was polymerase chain reaction corrected efficacy 
for each drug.
RESULTS: In total, 828 participants were enrolled in the four study arms: AL 
(462), AS-AQ (183), DP (91), and AS-PY (92). Among the recruited participants, 
10.2% (85/828) were lost to follow-up or withdrew, and 60 had recurrent malaria 
infections, 55 of which were considered new infections and five recrudescences. 
Day 28 corrected AL efficacy was 100% (95% CI 94.3-100) in Massinga, 100% in 
Dondo, 100% (95% CI 95.5-100) in Moatize, 97.63% (95% CI 94.4-100) in Mopeia, 
and 98.68% (95% CI 96.2-100) in Montepuez. Day 28 corrected AS-AQ efficacy was 
100% in Dondo and 100% (95% CI 95.4-100) in Moatize. For DP, the corrected 
efficacy on day 42 was 100% (95% CI 94.1-100) in Massinga, and that on day 42 
was 97.75% (95% CI 94.7-100) in Mopeia. All drugs were well tolerated, with 
adverse events reported in less than 2% of the participants.
CONCLUSION: AL and AS-AQ remain effective, as their efficacy remained above the 
90% WHO-recommended cut-off. DP and AS-PY also showed therapeutic efficacy above 
the WHO-acceptable cut-off and could be used as first-line treatments when 
needed. All four artemisinin-based combinations were well tolerated, with 
minimal safety concerns.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT05343312.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05473-9
PMID: 40660279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The clinical trial protocol has been cleared and approved by the 
National Bioethics Committee (Comité Nacional de Bioética para a Saúde de 
Moçambique (CNBS—IRB00002657)). The parents or guardians have given written 
informed consent before the participants’ enrolment. Consent for publication: 
Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


33. BMC Public Health. 2025 Jul 14;25(1):2455. doi: 10.1186/s12889-025-23152-x.

Socioeconomic and geographical disparities in disability distribution among 
Tanzanian population: insights from the 2022 demographic and health survey and 
malaria indicator survey.

Luoga P(1), Mahiti GR(2), Kapinga O(3), Herzon B(3), Mwaisengela SM(4), Materu 
PA(5), German CJ(4), Kasangala AA(6), Mtulo GE(7), Kinyenje ES(4), Hokororo 
JC(4), Ngonyani TL(8), Kacholi G(9), Kapologwe NA(10), Kumalija CJ(11), Anasel 
MG(9), Eliakimu ES(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Development Studies, School of Public Health and Social 
Sciences, Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences, Dar es Salaam, 
United Republic of Tanzania. luoga.pankras1@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Development Studies, School of Public Health and Social 
Sciences, Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences, Dar es Salaam, 
United Republic of Tanzania.
(3)School of Nursing, St. Johns University, Dodoma, United Republic of Tanzania.
(4)Health Quality Assurance Unit, Ministry of Health, Dodoma, United Republic of 
Tanzania.
(5)School of Nursing and Public Health, University of Dodoma, Dodoma, United 
Republic of Tanzania.
(6)Department of Curative Services, Ministry of Health, Dodoma, United Republic 
of Tanzania.
(7)Ministry of Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dodoma, 
United Republic of Tanzania.
(8)Regional Health Management Team, Mtwara, United Republic of Tanzania.
(9)Department of Health Systems Management, Mzumbe University, Morogoro, United 
Republic of Tanzania.
(10)East, Central and Southern Africa- Health Community (ECSA- HC), Arusha, 
United Republic of Tanzania.
(11)Health Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, Ministry of Health, Dodoma, United 
Republic of Tanzania.

BACKGROUND: Disability is a significant public health issue globally, especially 
in sub-Saharan Africa, including Tanzania, where its prevalence is high. 
Effective health service planning requires reliable data on disability 
prevalence and distribution. However, Tanzania lacks sufficient empirical data, 
hindering social service planning. This study aims to examine socioeconomic and 
geographical disparities in disability among Tanzanians aged 15-95 years.
METHODOLOGY: This study utilized secondary data from the 2022 Tanzania 
Demographic and Health Survey and Malaria Indicator Survey (TDHS-MIS), 
comprising a weighted sample of 58,425 individuals. The dependent variable was 
disability status, while independent variables included demographic and 
socioeconomic factors. Descriptive analysis, chi-square tests, and modified 
Poisson regression were employed to assess associations, with p-values < 0.05 
indicating significance.
RESULTS: The overall disability prevalence was 11%. Older individuals (≥ 50 
years) had a higher prevalence ratio (Adjusted prevalence ratio (APR): 3.85; 95% 
CI: 3.33, 4.52) compared to those aged 15-29. Females had a higher prevalence 
ratio (APR: 2.67; 95% CI: 2.63, 2.71) than males. Individuals with secondary 
education (APR: 2.58; 95% CI: 2.51, 2.65) and separated/widowed individuals 
(APR: 2.91; 95% CI: 2.74, 3.09) were more likely to report disability. 
Wealthiest households (APR: 2.74; 95% CI: 2.75, 2.9) and those with health 
insurance (APR: 2.83; 95% CI: 2.86, 2.99) had higher disability prevalence. 
Regional disparities showed the Northern zone had a higher prevalence ratio 
(APR: 2.77; 95% CI: 2.87, 3.00) compared to the Lake zone.
CONCLUSION: This study highlights significant disability prevalence in Tanzania, 
with older age, female gender, higher education, wealth, and marital separation 
as key risk factors for disability. The counterintuitive findings on wealth and 
education may indicate improved access to diagnosis. Regional disparities 
warrant further investigation. These findings emphasize the need for targeted 
interventions and further research into underlying mechanisms to improve support 
systems for vulnerable populations.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-025-23152-x
PMID: 40660121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study analyzed the data collected from the Demographic and 
Health Survey (DHS), which had already obtained ethical clearance from the 
Tanzanian National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) for data collection. In addition, 
during the data collection process all respondents provided a written informed 
consent to participate in the survey as per the Helsinki declaration. Therefore, 
this study did not require any additional ethical clearance. However, permission 
to use the data was obtained from the DHS custodian by submitting our concept 
note. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


34. Biotechnol Lett. 2025 Jul 14;47(4):75. doi: 10.1007/s10529-025-03620-5.

Oral administration of Bacillus subtilis spores expressing Staphylococcus aureus 
IsdB induces mucosal immune responses in mice.

Nguyen NNY(1)(2), Duong L(1)(2), Nguyen TT(1), Nguyen UTT(1), Pham VNT(3), 
Nguyen HD(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Center for Bioscience and Biotechnology, University of Science, Ho Chi Minh 
City, Vietnam.
(2)Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(3)National Institute of Malaria - Parasitology - Entomology in Ho Chi Minh 
City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(4)Center for Bioscience and Biotechnology, University of Science, Ho Chi Minh 
City, Vietnam. ndhoang@hcmus.edu.vn.
(5)Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. ndhoang@hcmus.edu.vn.

PURPOSE: Bacillus subtilis spores, known for their durability and well-developed 
genetic manipulation tools, show promise for oral vaccine delivery. 
Staphylococcus aureus is a major global health concern due to multidrug 
resistance and lack of a vaccine. This study explored the potential of B. 
subtilis spores engineered to express IsdB, a key S. aureus iron acquisition 
protein, on their surface and evaluated the immunogenic effect of recombinant 
spores through oral administration in mice.
METHOD: B. subtilis spores were engineered to display a key S. aureus protein, 
IsdB, fused with spore coat protein, CotB, and confirmed by PCR. Western 
blotting, sporeELISA, and immunofluorescence microscopy verified the surface 
expression of IsdB. The engineered BsHT2377 spores were orally administered to 
Swiss mice at two different doses, and antibody levels in both serum and feces 
were measured using ELISA.
RESULT: PCR confirmed the targeted integration of the isdB gene into B. 
subtilis, generating the strain BsHT2377. Western blotting, sporeELISA, and 
immunofluorescence microscopy validated IsdB surface display on BsHT2377 spores. 
Oral administration triggered a gut-localised immune response in mice, with 
significantly elevated fecal IgA but no substantial increase in serum IgG.
CONCLUSION: This study engineered a novel B. subtilis strain, BsHT2377, that 
displays the S. aureus IsdB protein on its spore surface. Oral administration in 
mice significantly increased fecal IgA, indicating a mucosal immune response. 
These findings highlight the potential of B. subtilis spores as oral vaccine 
carriers and offer insights to support the optimization of future vaccine 
designs.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-025-03620-5
PMID: 40660064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have declared that no competing interests exist. Ethical approval: This study 
was approved by the Ethics Committee of the National Institute of 
Malariology—Parasitology—Entomology in Ho Chi Minh City, signed on March 01, 
2020. Consent of publication: Not applicable.


35. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 14;15(1):25376. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10500-5.

Tracking Plasmodium falciparum antimalarial resistance markers during a malaria 
pre-elimination period in the Pacific coast of South America.

Ñacata I(1), Early AM(2), Boboy J(3), Neafsey DE(2)(4), Sáenz FE(5).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación para la Salud en América Latina, Facultad de Ciencias 
Exactas y Naturales, Pontificia Universidad Católica del Ecuador, Quito, 
Ecuador.
(2)Infectious Disease and Microbiome Program, Broad Institute of MIT and 
Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(3)Distrito 08D05 Ministerio de Salud Pública, San Lorenzo, Esmeraldas, Ecuador.
(4)Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Centro de Investigación para la Salud en América Latina, Facultad de Ciencias 
Exactas y Naturales, Pontificia Universidad Católica del Ecuador, Quito, 
Ecuador. fsaenz213@puce.edu.ec.

Antimalarial resistance in Plasmodium falciparum is a public health problem in 
the fight against malaria in Ecuador. Characterizing the molecular epidemiology 
of drug resistance genes helps to understand the emergence and spread of 
resistant parasites. In this study, the effects of drug pressure and human 
migration on antimalarial resistance in P. falciparum were evaluated. 
Sixty-seven samples from northwestern Ecuador from the 2019-2021 period were 
analyzed. SNPs in Pfcrt, Pfdhps, Pfdhfr, Pfmdr-1, Pfk13 and Pfaat1 were 
identified by Sanger sequencing and whole-genome sequencing. A comparison of the 
frequencies of the haplotypes was made with data from the 2013-2015 period. 
Also, nucleotide and haplotype diversity were calculated. The frequencies of the 
mutant haplotypes, CVMET in Pfcrt and CICNI in Pfdhfr increased and became 
dominant (100% of infections) in Esmeraldas. NEDFSDFY in Pfmdr-1 was detected 
for the first time, while two wild-type haplotypes, SAKAA in Pfdhps and MYRIC in 
Pfk13, remained in 100% of samples. Interestingly, the A16V mutation in Pfdhfr 
that gives resistance to proguanil is reported in Ecuador for the first time. In 
conclusion, parasites resistant to chloroquine (Pfcrt) and pyrimethamine 
(Pfdhfr) increased in recent years, while parasites sensitive to sulfadoxine 
(Pfdhps) and artemisinin (Pfk13) prevail in Ecuador. These results suggest that 
the current first-line treatment (artemether-lumefantrine + primaquine) is still 
useful against P. falciparum.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10500-5
PMCID: PMC12259837
PMID: 40659734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval and consent to participate: All 
methods were performed in accordance with guidelines and regulations and in 
accordance with the declaration of Helsinki. The study was approved by the 
Research Ethics Committee on Human Beings of Pontificia Universidad Católica del 
Ecuador registered in the document CEISH-571-2018 and by the Ministry of Public 
Health (MPH) of Ecuador registered in the document MSP-DIS-2019-044-O.


36. Lancet Glob Health. 2025 Jul 11:S2214-109X(25)00232-3. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(25)00232-3. Online ahead of print.

The potential impact of reductions in international donor funding on 
tuberculosis in low-income and middle-income countries: a modelling study.

Clark RA(1), McQuaid CF(1), Richards AS(1), Bakker R(1), Sumner T(1), Prŷs-Jones 
TO(1), Houben RMGJ(1), White RG(1), Horton KC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK; TB Modelling Group and TB Centre, London School 
of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(2)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK; TB Modelling Group and TB Centre, London School 
of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK. Electronic address: 
katherine.horton@lshtm.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis programmes in many settings rely heavily on 
international donor funding. In 2025, the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID) was dismantled, and other countries announced cuts to 
overseas development assistance. We quantified the potential epidemiological 
impacts on the tuberculosis burden attributable to these reductions in funding.
METHODS: We calibrated a deterministic tuberculosis model of Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis transmission, progression, and care to epidemiological indicators 
in selected low-income and middle-income countries. Calibration was done with 
the history matching with emulation method, implemented with the hmer package in 
R and the Approximate Bayesian computation Markov Chain Monte Carlo method. We 
projected three future scenarios with the following assumptions: that levels of 
funding in 2024 would continue, that USAID funding would be terminated from 
2025, and that additional reductions in funding through The Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria would occur (alongside termination of funding 
from USAID) in line with current donor announcements from 2025. We assumed a 
reduction in tuberculosis treatment initiation rates proportional to budget 
reductions for each scenario, estimating cumulative excess episodes of 
symptomatic tuberculosis and tuberculosis deaths for each scenario.
FINDINGS: We modelled 79 countries, representing 91% of global tuberculosis 
incidence and 90% of global tuberculosis mortality in 2023. Our modelling 
suggested that termination of USAID funding might lead to 1·4 million (95% 
uncertainty interval 1·1-1·7) excess tuberculosis episodes and 537 700 
(451 900-662 300) excess deaths by 2035. Further reductions in funding in line 
with current announcements by the USA, France, the UK, and Germany could lead to 
2·8 million (2·1-3·7), 257 600 (192 500-332 900), 206 000 (153 900-266 100), and 
124 700 (93 200-161 000), additional episodes, respectively, of symptomatic 
tuberculosis and 1·0 million (0·8-1·3), 90 500 (72 400-112 800), 72 400 
(57 900-90 100), and 43 800 (35 000-54 500) additional tuberculosis deaths, 
respectively, in the same period, relative to the scenario of termination of 
USAID funding.
INTERPRETATION: We estimate substantial potential impacts on tuberculosis 
morbidity and mortality due to reductions in international donor funding. 
Expanded support from domestic and international donors is essential to address 
immediate gaps in services for prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(25)00232-3
PMID: 40659023

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.


37. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2025 Jul 14;19(7):e0013251. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0013251. Online ahead of print.

Community perceptions of yellow fever and its treatment practices in regions 
with reported outbreaks in Uganda: A qualitative study.

Huebl L(1)(2), Nnyombi A(3), Apoko P(4), Okello D(5), Walakira E(3), Kutalek 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit Medical Anthropology and Global Health, Department of Social and 
Preventive Medicine, Center for Public Health, Medical University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Tropical Medicine, Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical 
Medicine & I Department of Medicine, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Social Work and Social Administration, Makerere University, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(4)The Lutheran World Federation Uganda Program, Kampala, Uganda.
(5)Socioeconomic Data Center, Kampala, Uganda.

BACKGROUND: Yellow fever (YF), a mosquito-borne viral hemorrhagic fever, is 
endemic to Uganda and has caused numerous outbreaks in recent years. This study 
explored local perceptions of YF outbreaks among vulnerable groups in Uganda to 
inform future public health campaigns.
METHODOLOGY: A qualitative study examined community perceptions of YF and its 
treatment practices. Data were collected in six districts where YF outbreaks 
were reported in 2010 and 2016. A total of 76 individuals participated, 
comprising 43 semi-structured interviews, 10 expert interviews, and 4 focus 
group discussions, including vulnerable groups of older adults ≥ 65 years and 
pregnant women. Data were analyzed using grounded theory.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Participants often recognized jaundice but did not 
distinguish YF from other causes of jaundice, such as newborn jaundice, severe 
malaria or hepatitis. Nevertheless, participants still considered YF a deadly 
disease. It was perceived to be transmitted through multiple pathways, including 
mosquito bites, airborne transmission, close contact with sick individuals, 
sexual intercourse, vertical transmission during pregnancy, poor hygiene, and 
certain foods. Treatments ranged from herbal remedies to visiting health 
centers. Several YF survivors shared first-hand experience, often relying on 
traditional medicine due to limited access to health facilities, diagnostic 
options, and no specific treatment for YF. In remote areas, participants often 
did not know the cause of the outbreak, as awareness campaigns focused on 
symptoms, prevention, and mass vaccination.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: If YF is not seen as a distinct disease entity, 
implementing diagnostic and preventive measures may be impeded. Moreover, 
failure to diagnose YF in clinical settings can hamper timely outbreak response. 
We recommend strengthening health literacy through health education and public 
participation in vulnerable communities with programs tailored to local needs, 
given that other infectious diseases are prevalent in the region. Furthermore, 
we propose that access to diagnostic testing for YF may be enhanced.

Copyright: © 2025 Huebl et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0013251
PMID: 40658735

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


38. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 9:2025.05.08.25327228. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.08.25327228.

Indirect Benefits of Seasonal Malaria Chemoprevention for Non-Malarial Pediatric 
Infections and Routine Antibiotic Use in Real-World Programmatic Settings: A 
Pre-Post Study Using Positive and Negative Controls.

Gebreegziabher EA, Ouattara M, Bountogo M, Coulibaly B, Boudo V, Ouedraogo T, 
Lebas E, Hu H, O'Brien KS, Hsiang MS, Glidden DV, Arnold BF, Lietman TM, Sié A, 
Oldenburg CE.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the benefits of Seasonal Malaria Chemoprevention (SMC), the 
monthly administration of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine and amodiaquine during the 
high malaria season, beyond malaria prevention in real-world program settings.
METHODS: We conducted a pre-post comparison of non-malarial diagnoses 
(pneumonia, diarrhea, acute malnutrition) and antibiotic prescription rates 
during SMC administration weeks versus a three-week post-intervention period in 
rural Burkina Faso. Data came from clinic surveillance at 51 health facilities, 
a population-based census, and National Malaria Control Program data on SMC 
timing. Poisson regression models with person-weeks as an offset and standard 
errors clustered by health post estimated changes in rates. Interaction terms 
assessed variation across SMC cycles. Positive (malaria diagnoses, antimalarial 
prescriptions) and negative (injury) control outcomes were used to evaluate 
potential unmeasured confounding.
RESULTS: Compared to administration weeks, modest declines were observed in 
pneumonia, diarrhea, and acute malnutrition diagnoses, as well as in antibiotic 
prescription rates during the post-SMC period. Absolute reductions were 0.7 (95% 
CI: 0.3-1.0), 0.2 (95% CI: 0.1-0.4), 0.05 (95% CI: 0.001-0.09), and 0.90 (95% 
CI: 0.4-1.4) per 1,000 person-weeks, respectively. Positive control outcomes 
also declined, with malaria diagnoses and antimalarial prescriptions decreasing 
by 3.7 (95% CI: 2.6-4.8) and 3.6 (95% CI: 2.5-4.7) per 1,000 person-weeks. 
Injury rates (negative control) remained stable (0.02; 95% CI: -0.03 to 0.07). 
Reductions varied across SMC cycles and were most pronounced following the final 
round.
CONCLUSION: SMC may have additional benefits beyond malaria prevention, 
including reductions in common pediatric infections and subsequent routine 
antibiotic use.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.08.25327228
PMCID: PMC12248168
PMID: 40657315


39. Bio Protoc. 2025 Jul 5;15(13):e5375. doi: 10.21769/BioProtoc.5375.
eCollection  2025 Jul 5.

Rapid and Multiplex Diagnosis of Malaria Using Chelex-100 Extraction and LAMP-MS 
Assay.

Lim MS(1), Choe YL(2), Jang WS(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Safety Convergence Science, Korea University, Seoul, 
Korea.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Korea University Guro Hospital, Seoul, 
Korea.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Korea University Guro Hospital, Seoul, 
Korea.

Malaria remains a major public health threat, especially in tropical and 
subtropical regions. Accurate and rapid diagnosis is essential for effective 
disease management and control, yet conventional malaria diagnostics, including 
blood smear microscopy using Giemsa staining, PCR, and rapid diagnostic tests 
(RDTs), are limited by the need for trained personnel, reliance on laboratory 
infrastructure, and reduced sensitivity at low parasite densities, respectively. 
This protocol details an innovative, rapid, and economical diagnostic platform 
combining a simplified Chelex-100 resin-based nucleic acid extraction method 
with a multiplex loop-mediated isothermal amplification microscanner (LAMP-MS) 
assay. The malaria diagnostic platform enables simultaneous detection of 
Plasmodium falciparum (Pf), Plasmodium vivax (Pv), pan-malaria (Pan), and an 
internal control (IC) within 40 min, from DNA extraction to result 
interpretation. It demonstrates sensitivity and specificity comparable to 
traditional PCR-based diagnostics, making it a practical and scalable solution 
for use in resource-constrained environments. Key features • Low-cost and simple 
DNA extraction using Chelex-100 resin. • Multiplex detection of Pan malaria, Pf, 
Pv, and IC using microchip chambers. • Visual endpoint detection using a 
microscope or a microscanner. • Field-deployable with minimal equipment.

©Copyright : © 2025 The Authors; This is an open access article under the CC 
BY-NC license.

DOI: 10.21769/BioProtoc.5375
PMCID: PMC12245633
PMID: 40655418

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no 
competing interests.


40. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 1:2025.04.28.650966. doi: 
10.1101/2025.04.28.650966.

Biting time of day in malaria mosquitoes is modulated by nutritional status.

Oke CE, Rund SSC, Machani MG, Sabtiu ARM, Akuamoah-Boateng Y, Afrane YA, Reece 
SE.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Vector-borne disease transmission follows daily 
rhythms because the transmission of pathogens occur at the time of day vectors 
forage for blood. Insecticide-treated bed nets significantly reduce malaria 
transmission by interrupting the host seeking behaviour of Anopheles spp. 
mosquitoes, yet residual transmission is an increasing problem. Biting when 
humans are unprotected by bed nets is thought to be a driver of residual 
transmission, but why mosquitoes are shifting their biting rhythms is poorly 
understood. We test whether food availability, which mediates activity and 
foraging rhythms across diverse animal taxa, influences the time of day that 
mosquitoes bite.
METHODOLOGY: We varied the amount of blood and sucrose that female Anopheles 
gambiae s.l. received, and used human-mimic traps in a semi-field system to test 
the hypothesis that low resources cause host seeking to occur at earlier and 
later times of day.
RESULTS: Nutritional resources determine both the likelihood and time of day 
that host seeking occurs. Specifically, low-resourced mosquitoes were 2-3 fold 
more likely to host seek overall, and 5-10 fold more likely to host seek at an 
earlier time of day than well-resourced mosquitoes, which predominantly sought a 
host in the second half of the night time.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: By driving plasticity in biting time of day, 
mosquito nutritional condition is an underappreciated contributor to residual 
malaria transmission. Understanding the drivers of biting time of day variation, 
and their impacts on parasite development, is crucial for the future success of 
vector control tools and controlling malaria transmission.
LAY SUMMARY: We reveal that the nutritional status of mosquitoes influences the 
time of day that they seek a human to bite. Specifically, poorly-fed mosquitoes 
attempt to bite humans in the early evening when they are unlikely to be 
protected by bed nets, which could lead to increased malaria transmission.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.04.28.650966
PMCID: PMC12247726
PMID: 40654975


41. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 1:2025.04.28.651146. doi: 
10.1101/2025.04.28.651146.

Classification of outcomes in antimalarial therapeutic efficacy studies with 
Aster.

Gerlovina I, Berube S, Briggs J, Murie K, Murphy M, Wesolowski A, Greenhouse B.

Reliable assessment of antimalarial drug efficacy is crucial for effective 
response to emerging drug resistance, and therapeutic efficacy studies (TES) are 
the primary means of estimating in vivo efficacy. Accuracy of such estimates 
rests on correctly classifying recurrent infections developed during follow-up 
as recrudescences or new infections. Genotyping is used to guide classification, 
but polyclonal infections and allele chance matching still make classification 
challenging, especially in high transmission settings. Established methods for 
analyzing genotyping data are biased or difficult to use; few take full 
advantage of data from modern genotyping methods such as multiplexed amplicon 
sequencing. We propose an Adaptable Statistical framework for Therapeutic 
Efficacy and Recrudescence (Aster) that delivers accurate and consistent results 
by explicitly incorporating complexity of infection (COI), population allele 
frequencies, and imperfect detection of alleles in minority strains. Using an 
identity by descent approach, Aster accounts for alleles matching by chance and 
background relatedness that can otherwise lead to misclassification. The 
extensible framework can also utilize external information, such as parasite 
density and performance characteristics of a genotyping panel. Aster employs 
efficient combinatorial algorithms to process unphased polyclonal data, making 
it fast and fully scalable. Using simulations, we show that Aster dramatically 
outperforms match-counting algorithms currently recommended by WHO in a wide 
variety of settings and demonstrates consistently balanced performance measures 
that improve with more informative genotyping panels. Aster provides accurate 
study-level estimates of treatment failure for TES with any type of genotyping 
data, facilitating reliable evaluation of drug efficacy and effective management 
of malaria.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.04.28.651146
PMCID: PMC12247718
PMID: 40654658


42. Front Vet Sci. 2025 Jun 27;12:1613506. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2025.1613506. 
eCollection 2025.

Artesunate improves cryopreserved yak sperm quality by activating SOD1 
antioxidant pathway.

Fan Y(1)(2), Lv W(1)(2), Li X(3), Wanma G(1)(2), Li J(1)(2), Xiong X(1)(2), He 
X(3), Wang Y(3), Yin S(1)(2), Fu W(1)(2), He H(1)(2), Lin Y(1)(2), Lan D(1)(2), 
Xiong Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau Animal Genetic Reservation and 
Utilization, Ministry of Education and Sichuan Province, Southwest Minzu 
University, Chengdu, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Animal Science of National Ethnic Affairs Commission of 
China, Southwest Minzu University, Chengdu, China.
(3)Longri Breeding Stock Farm of Sichuan Province, Dujiangyan, China.

INTRODUCTION: Sperm damage from oxidative stress is common in semen 
cryopreservation. Natural antioxidants for frozen semen are largely unexplored. 
Artesunate (ART), derived from Artemisia annua and used for malaria treatment, 
shows potential as a frozen semen antioxidant.
METHODS: We investigated the effects of various ART concentrations (0.2, 0.5, 
and 1.0 mM) on yak semen cryopreservation and examined the molecular mechanisms 
involved.
RESULTS: Post-freezing, sperm quality markedly declined. However, 0.2 mM ART 
significantly improved sperm motility (both total and progressive) and reduced 
membrane damage. ART treatment effectively alleviated oxidative stress by 
reducing ROS levels and MDA content in the sperm while selectively upregulating 
SOD1 activity and protein levels, which are involved in maintaining DNA 
integrity and mitochondrial function.
CONCLUSION: These findings support the hypothesis that ART exerts antioxidant 
effects via a SOD1-mediated mechanism, highlighting its potential to improve 
frozen semen quality and offering a novel strategy for cryopreserving sperm in 
other species.

Copyright © 2025 Fan, Lv, Li, Wanma, Li, Xiong, He, Wang, Yin, Fu, He, Lin, Lan 
and Xiong.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2025.1613506
PMCID: PMC12247533
PMID: 40654506

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


43. J Med Entomol. 2025 Jul 14:tjaf089. doi: 10.1093/jme/tjaf089. Online ahead of
 print.

Evidence of established populations of Anopheles mosquitoes (Diptera, Culicidae) 
in the Turks and Caicos Islands.

Vaux AGC(1), Taylor R(1), Handfield Z(2), Robinson A(2), Hall D(2), Wilson D(2), 
Chariti G(2), Cosgrove DW(3), Strode C(3), Manco B(4), Johnston CJ(1), Medlock 
JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Entomology and Zoonoses Ecology Group, UK Health Security Agency, 
Salisbury, UK.
(2)Environmental Health Department, Ministry of Health and Human Services, Grant 
Turk, Turks and Caicos Islands Government.
(3)Department of Biology, Edgehill University, Ormskirk, UK.
(4)Department of Environment and Coastal Resources, Ministry Tourism, 
Environment, Fisheries, Maritime Affairs, Culture and Heritage, Agriculture, and 
Religious Affairs, Grant Turk, Turks and Caicos Islands Government.

This study reports the first detection of a second Anopheles species in the 
Turks and Caicos Islands (TCI). Anopheles albimanus was previously detected in 
2022, the first record of any Anopheles species in TCI. In response to this 
finding, targeted larval and adult mosquito surveys were conducted across 29 
aquatic habitats and 6 trapping locations on the islands of Providenciales, 
North Caicos, and Middle Caicos in March to April 2024. Using CDC updraft 
blacklight traps and larval sampling, Anopheles crucians s.l. adults (n = 84) 
were identified at four sites across Providenciales and North Caicos, including 
at Whitby Pond and Kew Highway in North Caicos, which accounted for 98% of the 
adults trapped. Immature An. crucians s.l. were found at a single site along Kew 
Highway. This is the first record of An. crucians s.l. in TCI, expanding the 
documented Anopheles diversity to 2 species, and taking the total number of 
recorded mosquito species in TCI to 12. Findings highlight the limited abundance 
of larvae during dry conditions, emphasizing the utility of adult trapping for 
Anopheles surveillance in TCI and the importance of timing larval surveys during 
the wetter months (June to October). This study provides baseline data for 
Anopheles species in TCI, demonstrating the effectiveness of blacklight updraft 
traps. Further research should include monthly surveillance, larval habitat 
mapping, and targeted control strategies to improve the understanding of 
Anopheles ecology and inform public health risk assessments for malaria in the 
region.

© Crown copyright 2025.

DOI: 10.1093/jme/tjaf089
PMID: 40653693


44. Malar J. 2025 Jul 13;24(1):230. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05421-7.

Physical and insecticidal durability of PermaNet(®) 3.0 and Olyset(®) plus 
piperonyl butoxide-synergist insecticide-treated nets in Sierra Leone: results 
of durability monitoring from 2020 to 2023.

Sudoi RK(1), Esch K(2), Yamba F(3), Iyikirenga L(4), Youssef C(5), Nallo P(5), 
Swamidoss I(6), Mapp C(6), Marke D(3), Smith SJ(3), Carshon-Marsh R(3), 
Sillah-Kanu M(3), Schnabel D(7), Raharinjatovo J(8), Carlson J(9), Levine R(6), 
Alyko E(4), Jose R(7), Hughes T(6), Jacob D(10), Yihdego Y(11), Opondo K(4)(12), 
Poyer S(2).

Author information:
(1)PMI VectorLink Project, Population Services International, Nairobi, Kenya. 
Raymond.sudoi@gmail.com.
(2)PMI VectorLink Project, Population Services International, Washington, D.C., 
USA.
(3)National Malaria Control Programme, Freetown, Sierra Leone.
(4)PMI VectorLink Project, Abt Associates, Freetown, Sierra Leone.
(5)Nest Builders International, Freetown, Sierra Leone.
(6)Entomology Branch, Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria, U.S. Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(7)U.S. President's Malaria Initiative, Malaria Branch, U.S. Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Freetown, Sierra Leone.
(8)PMI VectorLink Project, Population Services International, Antananarivo, 
Madagascar.
(9)U.S. President's Malaria Initiative, USAID, Washington, DC, USA.
(10)PMI VectorLink Project, Abt Associates, Washington, DC, USA.
(11)PMI VectorLink Project, Abt Associates, Accra, Ghana.
(12)School of Community Health Sciences, Njala University, Bo, Sierra Leone.

BACKGROUND: The performance of two piperonyl butoxide (PBO-synergist) 
insecticide-treated net (ITN) brands, PermaNet® 3.0 and Olyset® Plus, were 
evaluated under field conditions in two neighboring districts in Sierra Leone 
over 36 months to estimate median ITN survival, understand insecticidal 
efficacy, and identify factors influencing ITN durability. This assessment can 
help guide future PBO-synergist ITN procurement and replacement strategies.
METHODS: This prospective study tracked 370 households and 652 
campaign-distributed ITNs from 2020, followed annually for 36 months. Districts 
were purposefully selected based on shared characteristics. Household surveys 
were conducted, and 30 ITNs per round were tested for bioefficacy and chemical 
residue. Key indicators included ITN survival, 24-h mosquito mortality, and 
chemical content reduction compared to manufacturer targets doses. Cox 
proportional hazard models identified factors influencing ITN survival.
RESULTS: Median useful life was 3.0 (95% CI 2.7-3.5) years for PermaNet® 3.0 
ITNs in Bo and 2.2 (95% CI 2.0-2.4) years for Olyset® Plus ITNs in Moyamba. 
PermaNet® 3.0 ITNs displayed 13% 24-h mortality against pyrethroid-resistant 
mosquitoes on roof panels, with a 46% reduction in PBO content 34 months 
post-distribution. Olyset® Plus ITNs had 3% f24-hour mortality against 
pyrethroid-resistant mosquitoes, with a 77% reduction in PBO content. Several 
factors were associated with improved ITN survival, including cohort ITNs from 
Bo (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR] = 0.33, p < 0.001), households without children 
under five (CU5) (aHR = 0.64, p = 0.003), highest socio-economic status tertile 
(aHR = 0.63, p = 0.016), exposure to social and behaviour change (SBC) messages 
combined with positive net attitudes (aHR = 0.63, p = 0.008), lack of food 
storage in sleeping spaces (aHR = 0.56, p = 0.006), exclusive adult use of ITNs 
(aHR = 0.72, p = 0.048), net folding when not in use (aHR = 0.67, p = 0.015), 
and drying nets outside (aHR = 0.44, p = 0.008).
CONCLUSION: ITNs in Bo outperformed those in Moyamba in both physical and 
insecticidal performance. However, ITN survival is highly context specific, and 
further investigation into field performance of new ITN types is necessary 
across diverse epidemiological settings.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05421-7
PMCID: PMC12257677
PMID: 40653493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The evaluation, initiated in 2020, was a collaborative effort 
between researchers from Population Services International (PSI), PMI, NBI, and 
the Sierra Leone NMCP. Ethical approval was secured from the Sierra Leone Ethics 
and Scientific Review Committee (Version 2020), subsequently renewed for 
subsequent rounds. Additionally, clearance was obtained from the Research Ethics 
Board of PSI, Washington, DC, USA. Prior to each evaluation round, all 
participants gave informed consent. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


45. Malar J. 2025 Jul 13;24(1):229. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05475-7.

Evaluating malaria reactive surveillance and response strategies in northeast 
Cambodia: a mixed-methods study.

Win Han Oo(1)(2), Siv S(3), Kaungmyat Khant(4), Htike W(5)(6), Molyta MM(7), 
Lynn T(8), Aye Tun N(5), Agius PA(4)(9)(10), Fowkes FJI(4)(5)(10).

Author information:
(1)Disease Elimination Program, Burnet Institute, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. 
winhan.oo@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia. winhan.oo@unimelb.edu.au.
(3)National Centre for Parasitology, Entomology and Malaria Control, Ministry of 
Health, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
(4)Disease Elimination Program, Burnet Institute, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(5)Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(6)Health Security and Malaria Program, Burnet Institute Myanmar, Yangon, 
Myanmar.
(7)Health Poverty Action, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
(8)Health Poverty Action, London, UK.
(9)Faculty of Health, Deakin University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(10)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Cambodia aims to eliminate malaria latest by 2030 applying the 1-3-7 
malaria reactive surveillance and response (RASR) strategy which involves 
malaria case notification, investigation and classification on the same day as 
diagnosis, reactive case detection within three days, and investigation and 
classification of new active focus within seven days of case notification. This 
study investigates the implementation of the RASR strategy in terms of its 
timeliness, facilitators and barriers, and acceptability for implementation, 
thereby providing recommendations to improve the strategy in the context of the 
national health system.
METHODS: A mixed-methods study of secondary data analysis of aggregated routine 
malaria datasets, and cross-sectional survey, in-depth interviews and focus 
group discussions with malaria programme stakeholders, frontline health workers 
and mobile and migrant populations was conducted in Ratanakiri and Stung Treng 
provinces. Quantitative and qualitative data were analysed descriptively and 
thematically.
RESULTS: In 2020 and 2022, 72% and 59% of malaria cases were notified and 
investigated within one day after diagnosis. Timeliness of reactive case 
detection was 89% and 45% in 2020 and 2022 respectively. Despite having 
challenges including minimal community participation in reactive case detection, 
poor mobile phone network coverage and road conditions, a heavy workload at the 
commune health centre level, inadequate surveillance technical knowledge among 
village malaria workers and insufficient budget to execute RASR, the existing 
RASR strategy was deemed acceptable among all levels of health personnels.
CONCLUSION: The RASR strategy implemented in northeast Cambodia was generally 
functioning well despite some challenges. To improve the RASR strategy to 
achieve 100% timeliness and progress towards malaria elimination in Cambodia, 
allocating sufficient budget, capacity building to frontline health workers and 
better community engagement strategies are required.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05475-7
PMCID: PMC12255966
PMID: 40653491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study protocol was reviewed and approved by the Alfred Ethics 
Review Committee, Australia (Approval Number 393/21) and The Ethical Review 
Board, National Ethics Committee for Health Research, Cambodia (Approval 
Number—250 NECHR). Written informed consent was obtained from all study 
participants before data collection. Confidentiality was maintained during data 
collection, management, analysis, and reporting. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


46. Parasit Vectors. 2025 Jul 12;18(1):280. doi: 10.1186/s13071-025-06914-9.

Performance and usability evaluation of three LDH-based malaria rapid diagnostic 
tests in Kédougou, Senegal.

Sambe BS(#)(1), Zobrist S(#)(2), Sheahan W(3), Soni D(4), Diagne A(1), Sarr 
I(1), Diatta AS(1), Diaw SOM(1), Golden A(3), Slater H(3), Jang IK(3), Roa N(3), 
Pal S(3), Sarr FD(1), Faye J(1), Vigan-Womas I(1), Dieye Y(5), Cisse M(5), 
Domingo GJ(#)(3), Niang M(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut Pasteur de Dakar, Dakar, Senegal.
(2)PATH, Seattle, USA. szobrist@path.org.
(3)PATH, Seattle, USA.
(4)PATH, New Delhi, India.
(5)PATH, Dakar, Senegal.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Dec 13:2024.12.12.24318945. doi: 10.1101/2024.12.12.24318945.

BACKGROUND: The emergence of Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) parasites with deleted 
histidine-rich protein 2 and 3 (hrp2/hrp3) genes threatens the performance of 
HRP2-based malaria rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs). RDTs targeting Pf lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) may address current product limitations and improve case 
management. The objective of this study was to evaluate the performance and 
usability of three LDH-based RDTs in febrile patients.
METHODS: A cross-sectional diagnostic accuracy study was conducted in Kédougou, 
Senegal. Capillary blood was tested using the SD BIOLINE Ag Pf RDT (Abbott 
Diagnostics Korea Inc., Republic of Korea) and three LDH-based RDTs (BIOCREDIT 
Malaria Ag Pf [pLDH], BIOCREDIT Pf [pLDH/HRPII] and BIOCREDIT Pf/Pv [pLDH/pLDH]; 
Rapigen Inc., Republic of Korea). Venous blood was collected and used to repeat 
the BIOCREDIT RDTs and conduct microscopy. Frozen venous specimens were tested 
using a reference PCR assay. A quantitative multiplex malaria antigen assay 
measured antigen concentration. RDT performance was determined and analyzed as a 
function of antigen concentration distribution. Usability of the Pf-only 
BIOCREDIT tests was evaluated using a questionnaire.
RESULTS: Of the 220 participants, 154 (70%) were Pf-positive by PCR. The Pf 
(pLDH/HRPII) test demonstrated the highest sensitivity at 78% (95% confidence 
interval [CI] 70.9-84.5%); specificity was 89% (95% CI 79.4-95.6%). All RDTs 
performed better than microscopy (53% sensitivity). Although the HRP2 line on 
the Pf (pLDH/HRPII) test was more sensitive than the SD BIOLINE HRP2-based test 
(71%, 95% CI 63.6-78.4%), the sensitivities of the PfLDH lines alone on all 
three BIOCREDIT tests (61-64%) were lower than that of the SD BIOLINE HRP2 test. 
RDTs performed better when compared to antigen concentration over PCR results. 
Improved sensitivity of the Pf (pLDH/HRPII) test was driven by the HRP2 line. 
Line intensity correlated with antigen concentration. Predicted sensitivity 
using the analytical limit of detection (LOD) was comparable to the observed 
sensitivity. RDTs demonstrated acceptable usability.
CONCLUSIONS: Both HRP2 and LDH contributed to the sensitivity of the 
best-performing Pf-RDT. In populations such as this with low rates of hrp2/hrp3 
deletions, the PfLDH line alone cannot compensate for the performance of the 
HRP2 line, even with the improved PfLDH LOD of the BIOCREDIT tests. RDT 
analytical LODs can be used to predict performance in populations with known 
antigen concentrations.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-025-06914-9
PMCID: PMC12255971
PMID: 40652282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was reviewed and approved by the Institutional Review 
Boards (IRBs) of Comité National d'Ethique pour la Recherche en Santé (CNERS) 
[00000126/MSAS/CNERS/SP], Sénégal, and the WIRB-Copernicus Group (WCG) 
[1313427]. Written informed consent was obtained from all study participants. 
For minors, consent was provided by legal guardians, and children over the age 
of 7 years also provided assent. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


47. Malar J. 2025 Jul 12;24(1):227. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05357-y.

Factors associated with hospitalizations due to severe malaria in the 
non-endemic Brazilian region: a case-control study in the extra-Amazon Region 
from 2011 to 2019.

da Silva AC(1)(2), Duarte EC(1), Marchesini PB(2), Viana GMR(3), Ramalho 
WM(#)(1), Garcia KKS(#)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center of Tropical Medicine, University of Brasilia, Brasília, 70904-970, 
Brazil.
(2)Health Secretariat of Health and Environmental Surveillance, Ministry of 
Health, Brasilia, 70719-040, Brazil.
(3)Evandro Chagas Institute, Ministry of Health, Belém, 66093-020 , Brazil.
(4)Center of Tropical Medicine, University of Brasilia, Brasília, 70904-970, 
Brazil. kleydmann25@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Malaria is infectious disease with low occurrence in Brazil 
extra-Amazon Region. Despite this, higher lethality is observed in this region 
compared to the country's endemic area. Therefore, this study aimed to analyse 
factors associated with malaria hospitalizations (severe malaria) in the 
extra-Amazon Region, in order to prevent deaths.
METHODS: A case-control design was used, utilizing data from the Brazilian 
Notifiable Diseases Information System (Sinan) and hospitalization records from 
the Unified Health System (SIH/SUS) from 2011 to 2019. Cases comprised 
hospitalized malaria patients, while controls included reported malaria 
notifications without hospitalization. Probabilistic record linkage techniques 
were employed, and associations were analysed using multiple logistic regression 
with a 0.05 significance level.
RESULTS: The main risk factors identified were: Black or mixed-race ethnicity 
(OR = 1.22; 95% CI 1.04-1.43), low education (elementary school OR = 2.21; 95% 
CI 1.78-2.75 or high school OR = 1.72; 95% CI 1.39-2.13), infection outside the 
extra-Amazon Region (Amazon Region OR = 1.50; 95% CI 1.15-1.96 or abroad 
OR = 1.72; 95% CI 1.28-2.32), high parasite count (501 to 10,000/mm3 OR = 1.51; 
95% CI 1.27-1.80, 10,001 to 100,000/mm3 OR = 1.77; 95% CI 2.87-1.96 or higher 
than 100,000/mm3 OR = 3.15; 95% CI 2.20-4.50) and delayed treatment (after 
3-7 days symptoms onset OR = 1.74; 95% CI 1.36-2.24 or 8 days or more OR = 2.08; 
95% CI 1.62-2.66). Active case detection was a protective factor (OR = 0.65; 95% 
CI 0.54-0.78).
CONCLUSIONS: Delayed treatment remains a key factor in the occurrence of severe 
malaria, leading to high parasitaemia and revealing inequalities in access to 
healthcare based on socioeconomic differences. Travel to the Amazon Region or 
other countries also poses a challenge, requiring strengthened traveller health 
strategies and increased surveillance awareness to promptly suspect and identify 
cases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05357-y
PMCID: PMC12255989
PMID: 40652249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: In compliance with the National Health Council Resolution No. 510 
of April 7, 2016, the study was submitted to the Research Ethics Committee at 
the University of Brasília (CEP/UnB). Approval for data handling and linkage is 
documented in the committee’s re-port number 5.008.210. Measures were taken to 
mitigate the risk of exposing personal data, in accord-ance with the General 
Data Protection Law (LGPD)—Law No. 13.709 of August 14, 2018. Consent for 
publication: Patient consent was waived according to the Brazilian National 
Health Council resolution number 510/2016 which states that research using 
secondary data of National Databases do not require patient’s consent to be 
conducted. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


48. Malar J. 2025 Jul 12;24(1):228. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05477-5.

A review on the ethnomedicinal plants used for the traditional treatment of 
malaria in the Mayurbhanj district of Odisha, India.

Behera SK(1), Subudhi L(2), Mohapatra S(3), Panda AK(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Environmental Science Laboratory, School of Applied Sciences, Kalinga 
Institute of Industrial Technology (Deemed to be University), Bhubaneswar, 
751024, Odisha, India.
(2)Centre for Biotechnology, Siksha 'O' Anusandhan (Deemed to be University), 
Bhubaneswar-, 751003, India.
(3)Centre for Biotechnology, Siksha 'O' Anusandhan (Deemed to be University), 
Bhubaneswar-, 751003, India. shibanimohapatra@soa.ac.in.
(4)Environmental Science Laboratory, School of Applied Sciences, Kalinga 
Institute of Industrial Technology (Deemed to be University), Bhubaneswar, 
751024, Odisha, India. alok.pandafch@kiit.ac.in.
(5)Centre for Water Research and Climate Change, Kalinga Institute of Industrial 
Technology (Deemed to be University), Bhubaneswar, 751024, Odisha, India. 
alok.pandafch@kiit.ac.in.

Malaria is one of the leading causes of death in the tropics and subtropics. 
Though Odisha has seen a decline in malaria cases over the past few years, it 
remains a contributing factor in deciding India's malaria journey. The Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA)-based 
systematic review aims to investigate and compile the ethnomedicinal 
evidence-based documented research data on anti-malarial medicinal plants in 
Mayurbhanj, Odisha. An extensive literature survey was conducted using online 
databases, following the PRISMA-Protocols (PRISMA-P) guidelines for 
anti-malarial prophylaxis and diagnosis using the ethnomedicinal plants in 
Mayurbhanj. Using appropriate exclusion and inclusion criteria, 20 
literature/book chapters were included in the study. Origin 2024b was used for 
the analysis of the ethnomedicinal information. The study identified 40 plant 
species used by traditional healers in anti-malarial treatment. These 40 plant 
species belong to 24 families, the majority of which are the Acanthaceae and 
Apocyanaceae. Most of the formulations came from a decoction, paste, juice and 
powder. It was interesting to note that the formulations were predominantly 
provided by oral route. The leaves and roots were the significant parts used by 
the healers for the anti-malarial treatment. However, no side effects were 
reported for these plants. The review highlights the rich variety of 
ethnomedicinal plants and their recipes for anti-malarial treatment in 
Mayurbhanj. The disease still plagues Odisha, necessitating study on dispersed 
ethnomedicinal studies for a better therapeutic comprehension of the diagnosis. 
This will aid diagnosis and boost tribal knowledge and culture.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05477-5
PMCID: PMC12255974
PMID: 40652195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


49. Neural Netw. 2025 Jul 8;191:107833. doi: 10.1016/j.neunet.2025.107833. Online
 ahead of print.

Uncertainty-guided attention learning for malaria parasite detection in thick 
blood smears.

Xiong H(1), Wang Z(2), Sharan RV(3), Berkovsky S(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Informatics, Australian Institute of Health Innovation, 
Macquarie University, Sydney, 2109, NSW, Australia. Electronic address: 
hao.xiong@mq.edu.au.
(2)School of Computer Science, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 2006, NSW, 
Australia. Electronic address: zhiyong.wang@sydney.edu.au.
(3)Centre for Health Informatics, Australian Institute of Health Innovation, 
Macquarie University, Sydney, 2109, NSW, Australia; School of Computer Science 
and Electronic Engineering, University of Essex, Colchester, CO4 3SQ, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: roneel.sharan@essex.ac.uk.
(4)Centre for Health Informatics, Australian Institute of Health Innovation, 
Macquarie University, Sydney, 2109, NSW, Australia. Electronic address: 
shlomo.berkovsky@mq.edu.au.

Malaria may seriously threaten an individual's health and wellbeing, and early 
screening is pivotal for timely treatment and recovery. In malaria screening, 
thick blood smears are exploited to count the parasites and assess the severity 
of the disease. Parasites are tiny objects that can be found in high resolution 
blood smear images, which renders them difficult for detection. Other than using 
object detection based methods, prior works also applied image classification 
techniques to this problem. They first extracted image patches from blood smears 
as parasite candidates and then utilized convolutional neural networks to 
classify these patches as parasites or non-parasites. However, these approaches 
overlook the fact that the blood smear images may contain noises, errors, and 
background artifacts, which introduces uncertainty and makes the model 
predictions less stable. In this work, we propose an uncertainty-guided 
attention learning based network for malaria parasite detection from thick blood 
smears, which incorporates pixel attention mechanism to identify more 
fine-grained and pixel-wise informative features, to improve the classification 
capability of our model. We further put uncertainty estimation on channels of 
the feature map to guide pixel attention learning, such that the features from 
channels with higher uncertainty are considered unreliable and are thus 
restrictively exploited by pixel attention learning. To estimate channel-wise 
uncertainty, we introduce the Bayesian channel attention, which reformulates the 
traditional channel attention under the Bayesian framework. As a result, it 
denotes channel uncertainties with estimated variances that guide the pixel 
attention learning. We compared to several state-of-the-art baselines on two 
public datasets using parasite-level and patient-level evaluations. The proposed 
method demonstrates superior performance with respect to most metrics on two 
datasets, especially achieving highest average precision (AP) scores in both 
parasite and patient-level scenarios.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neunet.2025.107833
PMID: 40651249

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


50. Acta Parasitol. 2025 Jul 12;70(4):154. doi: 10.1007/s11686-025-01097-w.

Genetic Diversity and Phylogenetic Relatedness of Cameroonian Plasmodium 
falciparum Isolates and Comparative Analysis with Global Populations.

Kojom Foko LP(1), Hawadak J(1), Singh V(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Parasite and Host Biology Group, ICMR-National Institute of Malaria Research, 
Delhi, 110077, India.
(2)Parasite and Host Biology Group, ICMR-National Institute of Malaria Research, 
Delhi, 110077, India. vineetas_2000@yahoo.com.
(3)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, 201002, 
India. vineetas_2000@yahoo.com.

PURPOSE: Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) is the deadliest malaria parasite species, 
and its genetic diversity is a significant obstacle to its effective control. 
Here, we analyzed the genetic diversity and phylogeny of Pf isolates collected 
in Cameroon using merozoite surface proteins 1 and 2 (msp1/2) markers.
METHODS: Samples were collected in three malaria epidemiological facets of three 
regions of Cameroon (Littoral, North, Far North). The msp1 block 2 and msp2 
block 3 were genotyped using polymerase chain reaction and Sanger sequencing. 
The structural organization the msp1/2 allelic families (K1, MAD20, and RO33 for 
msp1, IC/3D7, and FC27 for msp2) was analyzed, while their phylogenetic 
relatedness was assessed in comparison with ~ 2500 good quality sequences from 
various geographical areas.
RESULTS: The K1 and MAD20 families had high structural diversity due to the 
repetition of 3-amino acid repeats (SGT, SGP, and SAQ for K1, SGG, and SVA for 
MAD20). RO33 sequences presented several mutation points. Tetramer to decamer 
repetitive amino acids were identified in IC/3D7 sequences mainly GSGA (31.3%) 
and GASGSA (25%). The 32-aa sequence of the FC27 family showed non-synonymous 
substitution, insertion, and deletions. The K1 and RO33 sequences were 
phylogenetically closer to those from China/Myanmar, while MAD20, IC/3D7, and 
FC27 sequences were closer to those from India, Panama, and Papua New Guinea. 
The Cameroonian Pfmsp1/2 sequences showed a high genetic structure with 
phylogenetic patterns outlining a complex Pf population structure.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s11686-025-01097-w
PMID: 40650822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent 
for Publication: Not applicable.


51. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Jun 21;26(13):5977. doi: 10.3390/ijms26135977.

Tracking Drug Resistance in Plasmodium falciparum: Genetic Diversity of Key 
Resistance Markers in Brazilian Malaria Hotspots.

de Abreu-Fernandes R(1)(2), de Queiroz LT(1), Almeida-de-Oliveira NK(1)(2), de 
Lavigne Mello AR(1)(2), de Aguiar Barros J(1)(3), Pratt-Riccio LR(1), Melo 
GC(4)(5), Brasil P(2)(6), Daniel-Ribeiro CT(1)(2), Menard D(7)(8)(9)(10), 
Ferreira-da-Cruz MF(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Pesquisa em Malária, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Fundação Oswaldo 
Cruz (Fiocruz), Rio de Janeiro 21041-361, Brazil.
(2)Centro de Pesquisa, Diagnóstico e Treinamento em Malária (CPD-Mal), Reference 
Laboratory for Malaria in the Extra-Amazonian Region for the Brazilian Ministry 
of Health, Secretaria de Vigilância Sanitária & Fiocruz, Rio de Janeiro 
21041-361, Brazil.
(3)Núcleo de Controle da Malária, Departamento de Vigilância Epidemiológica, 
Coordenação Geral de Vigilância em Saúde, SESAU-RR, CIEVS/SVS/SMSA-BV, Boa Vista 
69305-080, Brazil.
(4)Fundação de Medicina Tropical Dr. Heitor Vieira Dourado (FMT-HVD), Manaus 
69040-000, Brazil.
(5)Universidade do Estado do Amazonas (UEAM), Manaus 69010-455, Brazil.
(6)Laboratório de Pesquisa Clínica em Doenças Febris Agudas, Instituto Nacional 
de Infectologia Evandro Chagas, Fiocruz, Rio de Janeiro 21040-360, Brazil.
(7)Malaria Parasite Biology and Vaccines Unit, Institut Pasteur, Université 
Paris Cité, F-75015 Paris, France.
(8)Malaria Genetics and Resistance Team (MEGATEAM), UR 3073-Pathogens Host 
Arthropods Vectors Interactions, Université de Strasbourg, F-67000 Strasbourg, 
France.
(9)CHU Strasbourg, Laboratory of Parasitology and Medical Mycology, F-67081 
Strasbourg, France.
(10)Institut Universitaire de France (IUF), F-75231 Paris, France.

Malaria remains a health problem, with Plasmodium falciparum accounting for 96% 
of cases in Africa and 15% in Brazil. The growing threat of drug resistance to 
artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) jeopardizes progress toward 
elimination. This study examined P. falciparum samples collected from 141 
patients in Brazil (2013-2023) by PCR and DNA sequencing to identify 
single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the pfcrt, pfmdr1, and pfk13 genes. Half of 
the samples carried the SVMNTMCGI haplotype in pfcrt, and none of the samples 
showed C350R mutations. In pfmdr1, the NYCDY haplotype was dominant (70%), with 
low occurrences of N86Y (4%) and no Y184F polymorphisms. No mutations linked to 
artemisinin partial resistance were detected in pfk13. Only one Amazonas sample 
exhibited wild-type haplotypes across all genes. Genetic diversity was more 
pronounced in pfcrt than pfmdr1, reflecting selective drug pressure. Significant 
linkage disequilibrium (LD) was observed within pfcrt (C72S and K76T) and pfmdr1 
(S1034C and N1042D), but not between the two genes. The absence of 
pfk13-resistant mutations and the low prevalence of key pfmdr1 markers support 
the efficacy of ACTs. The persistence of diverse haplotypes and intragenic LD 
reflects ongoing drug pressure, underscoring the need for continuous genetic 
surveillance to anticipate emerging resistance.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26135977
PMCID: PMC12249875
PMID: 40649756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


52. Molecules. 2025 Jul 7;30(13):2882. doi: 10.3390/molecules30132882.

Phytochemical Screening and Biological Activities of Lippia multiflora Moldenke.

Tlhapi D(1), Malebo N(2), Manduna IT(1), Mawunu M(3)(4), Chokwe RC(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Food Sustainability and Biotechnology, Faculty of Health 
and Environmental Sciences, Central University of Technology, Bloemfontein 9300, 
South Africa.
(2)Centre for Innovation in Learning and Teaching, Central University of 
Technology, Bloemfontein 9300, South Africa.
(3)Department of Agronomy, Polytechnic Institute, Kimpa Vita University, Uíge 
P.O. Box 77, Angola.
(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science and Technology, University of 
Kinshasa, Kinshasa P.O. Box 190, Congo.
(5)Department of Chemistry, College of Science Engineering and Technology, 
University of South Africa, Johannesburg 1710, South Africa.

Lippia multiflora Moldenke is widely used in Angola, on the African continent, 
and beyond for the treatment of many health conditions such as hypertension, 
enteritis, colds, gastrointestinal disturbances, stomachaches, jaundice, coughs, 
fevers, nausea, bronchial inflammation, conjunctivitis, malaria, and venereal 
diseases. However, there is limited literature about the active compounds linked 
with the reported biological activities. This study aims to assess the chemical 
profiles, antioxidant properties, and the cytotoxicity effects of the roots, 
stem bark, and leaves of L. multiflora. Chemical characterization of the crude 
extracts was assessed through quantification of total phenolic and flavonoid 
contents followed by Q exactive plus orbitrap™ ultra-high-performance liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometer (UHPLC-MS) screening. The correlation between 
the extracts and the correlation between the compounds were studied using the 
multivariate analysis. Principal component analysis (PCA) loading scores and 
principal component analysis (PCA) biplots and correlation plots were used to 
connect specific compounds with observed biological activities. The antioxidant 
activities of the crude extracts were carried out in vitro using DPPH 
(2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl) free radical scavenging and reducing power 
assays, while the in vitro toxicology of the crude extracts was evaluated using 
the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. A 
total of twenty constituents were characterized and identified using the 
UHPLC-Q/Orbitrap/MS. The methanol leaf extract showed the highest antioxidant 
activity in the DPPH free radical scavenging activity (IC50 = 0.559 ± 0.269 
μg/mL); however, the stem bark extract had the highest reducing power (IC0.5 = 
0.029 ± 0.026 μg/mL). High phenolic and flavonoid content was found in the 
dichloromethane leaf extract (32.100 ± 1.780 mg GAE/g) and stem bark extract 
(624.153 ± 29.442 mg QE/g), respectively. The results show the stem bark, 
methanol leaf, and dichloromethane leaf extracts were well-tolerated by the Vero 
cell line at concentrations up to 50 µg/mL. However, at 100 µg/mL onward, some 
toxicity was observed in the root, methanol leaf, and dichloromethane leaf 
extracts. The UHPLC-Q/Orbitrap/MS profiles showed the presence of terpenoids (n 
= 5), flavonoids (n = 5), phenols (n = 4), alkaloids (n = 3), coumarins (n = 1), 
fatty acids (n = 1), and organic acids (n = 1). According to several studies, 
these secondary metabolites have been reported and proven to be the most 
abundant for antioxidant potential. The identified flavonoids (catechin, 
quercitrin, and (-)-epigallocatechin) and phenolic compound (6-gingerol) can 
significantly contribute to the antioxidant properties of different plant parts 
of L. multiflora. The research findings obtained in this study provide a 
complete phytochemical profile of various parts of L. multiflora that are 
responsible for the antioxidant activity using UHPLC-Q/Orbitrap/MS analysis. 
Furthermore, the results obtained in this study contribute to the scientific 
information or data on the therapeutic properties of Lippia multiflora and 
provide a basis for further assessment of its potential as a natural remedy.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30132882
PMCID: PMC12250754
PMID: 40649396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


53. Infect Dis Poverty. 2025 Jul 11;14(1):66. doi: 10.1186/s40249-025-01320-w.

Trend of malaria parasites infection in Ethiopia along an international border: 
a Bayesian spatio-temporal study.

Chol CJ(1)(2), Belay DB(3)(4), Fenta HM(1)(5)(6), Chen DG(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, College of Science, Bahir Dar University, Bahir 
Dar, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Statistics, College of Natural and Computational Science, 
Gambella University, Gambella, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Statistics, College of Science, Bahir Dar University, Bahir 
Dar, Ethiopia. denekew.t.h@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Statistics, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa. 
denekew.t.h@gmail.com.
(5)Center for Environmental and Respiratory Health Research, Population Health, 
University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(6)Biocenter Oulu, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(7)Department of Statistics, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa.
(8)College of Health Solutions, Arizona State University, Arizona, USA.

BACKGROUND: Malaria is a major worldwide health concern that impacts many 
individuals worldwide. P. falciparum is Africa's main malaria cause. However, P. 
vivax share a large number in Ethiopia than any other countries in Africa, 
followed by the closest countries. This research aims to examine the 
spatiotemporal trends in the risk of malaria caused by P. falciparum and P. 
vivax in Ethiopia and other countries that share borders between 2011 and 2020.
METHODS: This study was carried-out in seven East African countries in 115 
administration level 1 (region) settings. We used secondary data on two 
plasmodium parasites, P. falciparum, and P. vivax, between 2011 and 2020 from 
the Malaria Atlas Project. This study used a Bayesian setup with an integrated 
nested Laplace approximation to adopt spatiotemporal models.
RESULTS: We analyzed P. falciparum and P. vivax malaria incidence data from 2011 
to 2020 in 115 regions. Between 2011 and 2020, all of South Sudan's areas, 
Ethiopia's Gambella region, and Kenya's Homa Bay, Siaya, Busia, Kakamega, and 
Vihita regions were at a higher risk of contracting P. falciparum malaria than 
their neighbors in seven East African nations. However, the Southern Nations, 
nationalities, and people, as well as the Oromia, Harari, Afar, and Amhara areas 
in Ethiopia, and the Blue Nile in Sudan, are the regions with a higher risk of 
P. vivax malaria than their bordering regions. For both P. falciparum and P. 
vivax, the spatially coordinated main effect and the unstructured spatial effect 
show minimal fluctuation across and within 115 regions during the study period. 
Through a random walk across 115 regions, the time-structured effect of P. 
falciparum malaria risk shows linear increases, whereas the temporally 
structured effect of P. vivax shows increases from 2011 to 2014 and decreases 
from 2017 to 2020.
CONCLUSIONS: The global malaria control and eradication effort should 
concentrate particularly on the South Sudan and Ethiopia regions to provide more 
intervention control to lower the risk of malaria incidence in East African 
countries, as both countries have high levels of P. falciparum and P. vivax, 
respectively.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40249-025-01320-w
PMCID: PMC12247342
PMID: 40646656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.


54. Malar J. 2025 Jul 11;24(1):225. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05476-6.

Genomic investigation of a non-travel Plasmodium falciparum case linked to 
imported malaria in China's post-elimination era.

Luo F(#)(1)(2), Jiang D(#)(3), Xu JR(2), Tan Y(2), Yang MP(2), Xie J(2), Yang 
SP(3), Shen HM(4)(5), Zhou S(6), Chen JH(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)National Key Laboratory of Intelligent Tracking and Forecasting for 
Infectious Diseases, National Institute of Parasitic Diseases, Chinese Center 
for Diseases Control and Prevention (Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases 
Research); NHC Key Laboratory of Parasite and Vector Biology; WHO Collaborating 
Center for Tropical Diseases; National Center for International Research On 
Tropical Diseases, Shanghai, 200025, China.
(2)Chongqing Center for Diseases Control and Prevention, Chongqing, 400042, 
China.
(3)Yubei District Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Chongqing, 401120, 
China.
(4)National Key Laboratory of Intelligent Tracking and Forecasting for 
Infectious Diseases, National Institute of Parasitic Diseases, Chinese Center 
for Diseases Control and Prevention (Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases 
Research); NHC Key Laboratory of Parasite and Vector Biology; WHO Collaborating 
Center for Tropical Diseases; National Center for International Research On 
Tropical Diseases, Shanghai, 200025, China. shenhm@nipd.chinacdc.cn.
(5)Hainan Tropical Diseases Research Center (Hainan Sub-Center, Chinese Center 
for Tropical Diseases Research), Haikou, 571199, China. shenhm@nipd.chinacdc.cn.
(6)Chongqing Center for Diseases Control and Prevention, Chongqing, 400042, 
China. shuangzhou428@sohu.com.
(7)National Key Laboratory of Intelligent Tracking and Forecasting for 
Infectious Diseases, National Institute of Parasitic Diseases, Chinese Center 
for Diseases Control and Prevention (Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases 
Research); NHC Key Laboratory of Parasite and Vector Biology; WHO Collaborating 
Center for Tropical Diseases; National Center for International Research On 
Tropical Diseases, Shanghai, 200025, China. chenjh@nipd.chinacdc.cn.
(8)Hainan Tropical Diseases Research Center (Hainan Sub-Center, Chinese Center 
for Tropical Diseases Research), Haikou, 571199, China. chenjh@nipd.chinacdc.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Although China has achieved malaria elimination, the risk of 
reintroduction persists due to imported Plasmodium falciparum cases. Occasional 
infections without a clear travel history present challenge to routine 
epidemiological investigation and underscore the need for advanced tracing 
tools.
METHODS: Whole-genome sequencing (WGS), principal component analysis (PCA), and 
identity-by-descent (IBD) analysis were applied to investigate a P. falciparum 
case reported in Chongqing, China, in 2019. The patient had no overseas travel 
history but was treated at the same hospital with a confirmed imported case from 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
RESULTS: Genomic analysis placed the unidentified case within the West and 
Central African parasite cluster. IBD analysis showed a high degree of 
relatedness (IBD = 0.9) between this case and the DRC-imported case, suggesting 
a potential transmission link. These findings indicate the likely Central 
African origin of the infection and raise concerns about local transmission risk 
even in a post-elimination setting.
DISCUSSION: This case highlights the limitations of traditional epidemiology in 
detecting cryptic transmission routes. Genomic epidemiology enables finer-scale 
resolution of parasite origin and relatedness, providing critical evidence in 
elimination-phase malaria control.
CONCLUSIONS: Genomic tools such as WGS, PCA, and IBD analysis can enhance 
national malaria surveillance systems by identifying infection sources and 
clarifying transmission routes. Their integration supports elimination-stage 
strategies and helps prevent malaria reintroduction in formerly endemic regions.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05476-6
PMCID: PMC12247474
PMID: 40646577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study was conducted based on the principles expressed in the 
Declaration of Helsinki. Per the study protocol, the potential risks and 
benefits were explicitly explained to the participants, from whom blood was 
collected after receiving written informed consent according to the 
institutional ethical guidelines and approval by the ethics committee at 
Chongqing Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Consent for publication: 
Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


55. Malar J. 2025 Jul 11;24(1):226. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05405-7.

Caveola-vesicle complexes of Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium cynomolgi: 
large-scale aggregation and structure of PHIST-positive vesicles in late 
schizont-infected red blood cells.

Bannister LH(1), Dluzewski AR(1)(2), Meyer EVS(2)(3), Lapp SA(2)(3), Galinski 
MR(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)King's College, London, UK.
(2)Emory Vaccine Center, Emory National Primate Research Center, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Emory University 
School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Emory Vaccine Center, Emory National Primate Research Center, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA. mary.galinski@gmail.com.
(5)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Emory University 
School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA. mary.galinski@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Numerous caveola-vesicle complexes (CVCs) form around the surface of 
Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium cynomolgi infected erythrocytes during the 
asexual cycle. They include a 95 kDa protein in both species, the Plasmodium 
helical interspersed subtelomeric (PHIST) protein (PHIST/CVC-8195) located at 
the cytoplasmic face of CVC vesicles and tubules. The functions and detailed 
structure of CVCs are poorly understood, although they are essential for 
parasite survival. In this study, electron and immuno-electron microscopy were 
used to explore structural changes to CVCs during the final phase of parasite 
maturation, when they may lose their importance to metabolic function.
METHODS: Blood with maturing parasite-infected erythrocytes was collected by 
venipuncture from Saimiri boliviensis and rhesus macaque monkeys infected with 
P. vivax and P. cynomolgi, respectively. Platelets and leukocytes were removed 
from the blood, and trophozoite- and schizont-infected erythrocytes were 
purified and concentrated. The parasitized RBCs were fixed in 2.5% v/v 
glutaraldehyde for morphological electron microscopy study or 2% v/v 
paraformaldehyde and 0.075% v/v glutaraldehyde for immuno-electron microscopy; 
sections were immuno-stained with rabbit anti-PHIST antibodies detected with 
protein A-conjugated to 10 nm gold.
RESULTS: Caveola-vesicle complexes, present along the periphery of 
trophozoite-infected erythrocytes, are dismantled in late-stage 
schizont-infected cells, releasing vesicles and tubules which aggregate as 
extensive PHIST-positive clusters within the infected cells. The clusters 
persist beyond the egress of merozoites, amongst the debris of the infected 
cells. The walls of vesicles and tubules are basket-like frameworks of fine 
filaments. Vesicle lumens also contain clusters of filaments and spheroidal 
spinous particles.
CONCLUSIONS: Caveolae-vesicle complex integrity is stage-specific. The CVC 
numbers are maximal in trophozoite and early schizont phases, and they are 
dismantled prior to merozoite egress when caveolae disappear and their vesicles 
and tubules are released to aggregate within the infected erythrocytes. This 
timing indicates that CVC activities are primarily related to the parasite's 
earlier trophic metabolism. Detailed study shows that vesicles and tubules have 
a unique structure which provides data relevant to the question of their 
function(s). The persistence of vesicle clusters after red cell lysis is also 
significant for the pathology of malaria.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05405-7
PMCID: PMC12254962
PMID: 40646527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study did not use any human data. Methods concerning NHPs 
followed approved protocols from the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee 
at Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


56. BMC Genomics. 2025 Jul 11;26(1):658. doi: 10.1186/s12864-025-11530-z.

Increased heterozygosity and balancing selection in isofemale generations of 
Anopheles stephensi under laboratory conditions.

Mohanty AK(#)(1), Deshpande D(#)(2), Shah D(2), Balabaskaran Nina P(3), 
Karmodiya K(4).

Author information:
(1)Field Station, ICMR-National Institute of Malaria Research, DHS Building, 
Campal, Panaji, Goa, India, 403001. ajeet.nimr@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biology, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, 
Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Pashan, Pune, 411008, Maharashtra, India.
(3)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Central University of 
Kerala, Kasaragod, Kerala, 671325, India. praveen.nina@cukerala.ac.in.
(4)Department of Biology, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, 
Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Pashan, Pune, 411008, Maharashtra, India. 
krish@iiserpune.ac.in.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The urban malaria vector, Anopheles stephensi, originally limited to 
South Asia and the Arabian Peninsula has now expanded to several countries in 
Africa. Despite the continuous insecticide pressure and changing urban 
landscapes, An. stephensi has been able to adapt, sustain, and expand. The 
expansion of this remarkably sturdy vector poses a grave public health threat to 
millions in urban Africa. Research efforts across the globe have mainly focused 
on understanding the genes that support and limit the development of Plasmodium 
in An. stephensi. Understanding the genes that are critical for adaptation and 
survival is important for focused An. stephensi's control and elimination 
efforts. Balancing selection is an evolutionary mechanism adapted by organisms 
to maintain genetic diversity, especially for immune-related genes. Here, we 
sequenced and analyzed the genome of laboratory-reared isofemale once every 25 
th generation-0 (Wild type), 25 th, 50 th, 75 th, 100 th, 125 th, and 150 th to 
identify loci and genes undergoing balancing selection-information that could 
aid in vector control.
RESULTS: Tajima's D and beta scores were used to identify the signatures of 
selection in the genomes of seven isofemale An. stephensi from 0 - 150 th 
generation. Based on the beta scores, the top five genes undergoing balancing 
selection include ASTEI04624, ASTEI04623 (sensory perception), ASTEI10474 
(carbohydrate metabolism), ASTEI03792 (Actin binding), and ASTEI01081 (yet to be 
functionally characterized).
CONCLUSION: For its survival, a certain amount of heterozygosity and balancing 
selection in specific loci, especially in genes involved in carbohydrate 
metabolism and chemoreception is maintained by the inbred laboratory-reared 
isofemale An. stephensi. This could be a functional adaptation to the 
glucose-based diet they are fed in the laboratory.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-025-11530-z
PMCID: PMC12255108
PMID: 40646447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent of 
participants: NA. Consent for publication: NA. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


57. BMC Infect Dis. 2025 Jul 11;25(1):912. doi: 10.1186/s12879-025-10869-8.

Acute undifferentiated febrile illness in a traveler returning from Burkina 
Faso, West Africa to Puducherry, India- a case report.

Srirama S(#)(1), Sihag KK(#)(2), Chandrasekaran AK(3), Latha NP(2)(4), Arif 
W(2), Kumar BS(2), Devaraju P(5).

Author information:
(1)ICMR- Vector Control Research Centre, Medical Complex, Indira Nagar, 
Puducherry, 605006, Puducherry, India. dr.srikanthsrirama@gmail.com.
(2)ICMR- Vector Control Research Centre, Medical Complex, Indira Nagar, 
Puducherry, 605006, Puducherry, India.
(3)Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute, Puducherry, Puducherry, 
India.
(4)Trivandrum Medical College, Trivandrum, Kerala, India.
(5)ICMR- Vector Control Research Centre, Medical Complex, Indira Nagar, 
Puducherry, 605006, Puducherry, India. panneeryadav82@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Imported malaria remains a significant diagnostic challenge, 
particularly in regions approaching elimination. This case report is novel in 
its exploration of the complexities involved in diagnosing malaria imported from 
a high-endemic area to a low-endemic region, emphasizing the critical role of 
detailed travel history and molecular diagnostics in identifying the disease. 
The case underscores the potential public health implications of missing such 
diagnoses in regions where routine malaria testing is not performed due to low 
endemicity.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 25-year-old male presented to a tertiary care hospital in 
Puducherry, India, with symptoms of intermittent fever, headache, loss of 
appetite, and vomiting, which persisted over a week. Initial laboratory findings 
showed thrombocytopenia and leukopenia, with negative tests for dengue, 
chikungunya, and scrub typhus. Further investigation using molecular diagnostic 
techniques identified Plasmodium falciparum. The patient had recently returned 
from Burkina Faso, West Africa, where he had experienced similar episodes of 
fever, establishing the diagnosis of imported malaria.
CONCLUSIONS: This case highlights the necessity of considering imported malaria 
in the differential diagnosis of febrile illnesses in India, a country nearing 
malaria elimination. It illustrates the importance of incorporating travel 
history into clinical evaluations and supports the use of molecular diagnostics 
to effectively diagnose malaria in settings where traditional diagnostic methods 
may overlook imported cases. The findings advocate for enhanced surveillance and 
diagnostic preparedness to manage imported cases of malaria, thereby supporting 
ongoing elimination efforts and preventing the re-establishment of local 
transmission.
CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER: Not applicable.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-025-10869-8
PMCID: PMC12255074
PMID: 40646441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Written informed consent was obtained from the patient. The Ethics 
Certificate for the Acute Undifferentiated Febrile Illness (AUFI) project was 
obtained from the Vector Control Research Centre’s Institutional Human Ethics 
Committee (VCRC IHEC) (vide Certificate No. IHEC-1022/N/F dated 25-02-2022 for 
24 months). Consent for publication: Written consent was obtained from the 
patient for publication. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


58. Commun Med (Lond). 2025 Jul 11;5(1):289. doi: 10.1038/s43856-025-01010-6.

Author Correction: A comprehensive overview of the burden, prevention, and 
therapeutic aspects of arboviral diseases in India.

Gupta H(1), Barde PV(2), Singh MP(3)(4), Bharti PK(5), Nitika N(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Applied Sciences & Humanities, GLA 
University, Mathura, India.
(2)ICMR-National Institute of Virology (Central Zone), Jabalpur, India.
(3)Malaria Elimination Demonstration Project, Mandla, India.
(4)Foundation for Disease Elimination and Control of India, Mumbai, India.
(5)ICMR-National Institute of Malaria Research (ICMR-NIMR), Dwarka, India.
(6)ICMR-National Institute of Malaria Research (ICMR-NIMR), Dwarka, India. 
dr.nitika11@gmail.com.

Erratum for
    Commun Med (Lond). 2025 Jul 1;5(1):254. doi: 10.1038/s43856-025-00968-7.

DOI: 10.1038/s43856-025-01010-6
PMCID: PMC12254312
PMID: 40646175


59. Trends Parasitol. 2025 Jul 10:S1471-4922(25)00159-X. doi: 
10.1016/j.pt.2025.06.005. Online ahead of print.

Novel techniques for disrupting malaria transmission.

Wilde ML(1), Farrell SN(1), Goodman CD(1), McFadden GI(2).

Author information:
(1)School of BioSciences, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, 
Australia.
(2)School of BioSciences, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, 
Australia. Electronic address: g.mcfadden@unimelb.edu.au.

Despite significant progress in malaria control over the past two decades, the 
disease remains a major challenge. This review explores novel mosquito-targeting 
and transmission-blocking solutions to combat the growing concerns of 
antimalarial and insecticide resistance. The emergence of drug-resistant 
Plasmodium spp. parasites and insecticide-resistant mosquitoes, coupled with 
changes in vector behaviour and the spread of invasive species, necessitates the 
development of new control strategies. We examine a range of approaches ranging 
from low-tech repurposing of existing technologies to high-tech genetic 
engineering solutions. These interventions aim to exploit the parasite 
population bottleneck in mosquitoes to potentially reduce selective pressure and 
the risk of resistance development. Although each approach has its advantages 
and limitations, an integrated strategy that combines current tools with novel 
technologies may be crucial for malaria eradication.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pt.2025.06.005
PMID: 40645886

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


60. Microb Pathog. 2025 Jul 9:107890. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2025.107890. Online 
ahead of print.

"A Novel Prophylactic Strategy to Enhance Immunity inPlasmodium bergheiInfected 
Mice: Combining Mefloquine and Ultra-Diluted Malarial Antigen.

Suri M(1), Katnoria S(1), Joshi J(2), Kaushik S(3), Nayak D(3), Kaur S(4).

Author information:
(1)Parasitology Laboratory, Department of Zoology, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, 160014, India.
(2)Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Chandigarh.
(3)Central Council for Research in Homeopathy, Ministry of AYUSH, Government of 
India, New Delhi, 110058.
(4)Parasitology Laboratory, Department of Zoology, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, 160014, India. Electronic address: puzoology@yahoo.com.

INTRODUCTION: Antimalarial drug resistance poses a significant challenge towards 
global efforts to combat malaria, so new strategies must be explored. Previously 
we showed promising antimalarial activity of ultra diluted malarial antigen 
(UdMAg), a novel biotherapic drug which was developed from in vitro cultures of 
a combination of cell-free parasites and infected red blood cells from 
Plasmodium falciparum 3D7(chloroquine sensitive) and RKL-9 strains(chloroquine 
resistant). The stock was collected and sent to Dr. Willmar Schwabe India Pvt. 
Ltd., New Delhi for preparing its homeopathic dilutions to 30c by repeated 
succussions and potentization. The final ultradiluted Malarial antigen 30c 
(UdMAg)was used for the treatment along with the standard antimalarial drug 
mefloquine (MQ) not only to enhance the therapeutic outcomes but also ameliorate 
its side effects METHODS: The prophylactic efficacy of MQ in combination with 
UdMAg was assessed in P. berghei infected mice (ANKA strain) using Peters (1980) 
method. Assessment of parasitaemia and mean survival time was studied along with 
immunological parameters which included analysis of cell surface expression, 
nitric oxide levels, ROS levels.
RESULTS: The results demonstrated enhanced prophylactic efficacy of the MQ, 
accompanied by 100% mean survival time when given along with UdMAg. Further, the 
combination treatment exhibited improved immunological responses, increased 
levels of nitric oxide and reactive oxygen species DISCUSSION & CONCLUSION: MQ, 
a standard antimalarial has significant side-effects, so a novel antimalarial 
(UdMAg) was used as a biotherapy in combination to improve its prophylactic 
efficacy through the generation of immune responses in the host. Our findings 
highlight the potential of UdMAg in enhancing the prophylactic efficacy of 
standard antimalarial drug. This novel integrative approach strengthens the 
impact of standard antimalarial treatment while offering a potential avenue for 
immune-based prophylaxis. Such an approach may have significant translational 
relevance for developing adjunct therapies in malaria-endemic regions, 
particularly where immune resilience is crucial.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2025.107890
PMID: 40645354

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest ☒The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Dr Sukhbir Kaur reports financial 
support, equipment, drugs, or supplies, and writing assistance were provided by 
Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy. Reports a relationship with that 
includes:. Has patent pending to. If there are other authors, they declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper61. PLOS Glob Public Health. 2025 Jul 11;5(7):e0004680. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pgph.0004680. eCollection 2025.

Testing the feasibility and utility of an executive function battery for use 
with primary school-aged students in Malawi.

Willoughby MT(1), Vokhiwa M(2)(3), Wylie AC(1), Reithinger R(4), Cohee LM(5).

Author information:
(1)Education Practice Area, RTI International, United States of America.
(2)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, Kamuzu University of Health 
Sciences, Blantyre, Malawi.
(3)Malaria Alert Centre, Kamuzu University of Health Sciences, Blantyre, Malawi.
(4)International Development Group, RTI International, United States of America.
(5)Department of Clinical Sciences, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, 
Liverpool, United Kingdom.

There is increasing evidence that malaria impacts student educational outcomes, 
in part through impairments in cognitive function. Currently, there is no 
consensus with regards to standardized tools or approaches to assess the extent 
and magnitude of this association. We conducted a pilot study to assess the 
feasibility and utility of a well-established tablet-based battery of executive 
function (EF) tasks for primary school-aged children in Malawi. We collected 
data from 197 students in grades 1-4 in a rural primary school in Blantyre 
District, Malawi. The assessment battery ("EF Touch"), which consisted of seven 
EF tasks that measure inhibitory control, working memory, and cognitive 
flexibility, was administered using open-source, standardized tablet-based 
software (RTI International's Tangerine). Assessments were conducted in 
Chichewa, and task performance was analyzed for accessibility and challenge 
across different grade levels. High completion rates were observed for all 
tasks, and most students completed the entire battery within one hour. Task 
performance varied by grade, with older students generally performing better. 
Two tasks had poor performance and ceiling effects and were omitted from 
composite scores. A composite of EF task performance was normally distributed 
and increased with grade level. The study demonstrates the feasibility of using 
a common battery of EF tablet-based assessments with students in grades 1-4 in 
Malawi. Given the high burden of malaria in this region and its potential impact 
on cognitive development, these results help to establish the feasibility and 
utility of direct EF assessments in future studies that focus on the impact of 
malaria infection on cognitive and educational outcomes.

Copyright: © 2025 Willoughby et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgph.0004680
PMCID: PMC12250566
PMID: 40644448

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


62. Avian Dis. 2025 Jun;69(2):160-169. doi: 10.1637/aviandiseases-D-25-00022.

Leucocytozoon Prevalence Differs by Sex in Louisiana Wild Turkeys (Meleagris 
gallopavo).

Lynch KI(1), Kelly TR(2), Erram D(3), Lattin CR(1), LaCour J(4), Foil L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana, USA.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana, USA, tosha.r.kelly@gmail.com.
(3)Entomology Department, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana, USA.
(4)School of Animal Sciences, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, USA.

Eastern wild turkeys (Meleagris gallapovo silvestris) in Louisiana have not 
fully recovered since their decline in the mid-20th century, despite multiple 
conservation management efforts. Wild turkeys are susceptible to Leucocytozoon 
infection and also serve as reservoirs of Leucocytozoon parasites. In this 
study, we tested for Haemosporidian infections (Haemoproteus, Plasmodium, and 
Leucocytozoon) in 106 different blood samples collected from hunted and 
live-trapped turkeys in Louisiana using PCR and sequencing of amplicons. 
Haemoproteus was the most prevalent genus (92%) and had the highest species 
diversity among the three genera. One-third of our samples were positive for 
Leucocytozoon infection, significantly less than Haemoproteus but similar to 
Plasmodium. Male turkeys were more likely to be infected by Leucocytozoon 
parasites than females. We detected two Leucocytozoon species, Leucocytozoon 
schoutedeni and Leucocytozoon sabrazesi, the latter possibly being the first 
detection in North America. There were four times as many turkeys infected with 
all three genera of Haemosporidia than uninfected turkeys. Last, we present a 
case study of an emaciated wild turkey in Louisiana; its death was attributed to 
Leucocytozoon infection. Future research into the pathology of Leucocytozoon 
infections will clarify whether Leucocytozoon parasites may contribute to 
population declines in turkeys through mortality or negative reproduction 
impacts, and whether one sex is more tolerant to Leucocytozoon infection than 
the other.

Publisher: La prevalencia de Leucocytozoon difiere según el sexo de pavos 
silvestres de Luisiana (Meleagris gallopavo). La población de pavos silvestres 
del este (Meleagris gallapovo silvestris) en Luisiana no se ha recuperado 
completamente desde su declive a mediados del siglo XX, a pesar de múltiples 
esfuerzos de conservación. Los pavos silvestres son susceptibles a la infección 
por Leucocytozoon y también sirven como reservorios de parásitos Leucocytozoon. 
En este estudio, se analizó la presencia de infecciones por Haemosporidios 
(Haemoproteus, Plasmodium y Leucocytozoon) en 106 muestras de sangre diferentes 
recolectadas de pavos cazados y capturados vivos en Luisiana que fueron 
analizadas mediante PCR y secuenciación de los amplicones. Haemoproteus fue el 
género más prevalente (92%) y presentó la mayor diversidad de especies entre los 
tres géneros. Un tercio de las muestras resultaron positivas para la infección 
por Leucocytozoon, significativamente menos que Haemoproteus, pero similar a 
Plasmodium. Los pavos machos fueron más propensos a ser infectados por parásitos 
Leucocytozoon que las hembras. Se detectaron dos especies de Leucocytozoon, 
Leucocytozoon schoutedeni y Leucocytozoon sabrazesi, siendo esta última 
posiblemente la primera detección en Norteamérica. Hubo cuatro veces más pavos 
infectados con los tres géneros de Haemosporidia en comparación con pavos no 
infectados. Por último, Se presentó un estudio de caso de un pavo salvaje con 
emaciación en Luisiana; su muerte se atribuyó a la infección por Leucocytozoon. 
Las investigaciones futuras sobre la patología de las infecciones por 
Leucocytozoon aclararán si los parásitos Leucocytozoon pueden contribuir a la 
disminución de las poblaciones de pavos a través de la mortalidad o impactos 
negativos en la reproducción, y si un sexo es más tolerante a la infección por 
Leucocytozoon que el otro.

DOI: 10.1637/aviandiseases-D-25-00022
PMID: 40643935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Glob Health. 2025 Jul 11;15:04197. doi: 10.7189/jogh.15.04197.

Limited access to clean water and sanitation in Mopeia, Mozambique: a 
description in the context of a cholera outbreak.

Torrea EO(1)(2), Imputiua S(3), Gorski N(4), Elobolobo E(3)(5)(6), 
Furnival-Adams J(4)(7), Jamisse E(3), Nicolas P(3)(4)(7), Montaña J(3)(4)(7), 
Vegove V(3)(6), Munguambe H(3), Ruiz-Castillo P(4), Mundaca H(3)(4)(8), Rudd 
M(9), Rabinovich R(4)(8), Saute F(3), Sacoor C(3), Chaccour C(4)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(2)Our Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Clinic, Mile 91, Sierra Leone.
(3)Centro de Investigaçao em Saúde de Manhiça, Manhica, Mozambique.
(4)ISGlobal, Hospital Clínic - Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Data Brew LLC, Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(6)Silver Lining, Manica, Mozambique.
(7)Facultat de Medicina i Ciències de la Salut, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(9)Sewanee: The University of the South, Sewanee, Georgia, USA.
(10)CIBERINFEC, Madrid, Spain.
(11)Navarra Centre for International Development, Universidad de Navarra, 
Pamplona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Inadequate access to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) 
accounts for a high burden of morbidity and mortality in impoverished regions. 
This is significantly due to infectious diseases and the direct impact on social 
and economic well-being. The high burden of communicable diseases and 
malnutrition in Mozambique, as well as high vulnerability to climate change, 
results in increased risk of WASH-related diseases. Our objective was to 
describe access to safe water and sanitation practices in Mopeia, a remote rural 
district in Mozambique.
METHODS: The source of data for this analysis is a cross-sectional, demographic 
survey carried out in Mopeia in 2021 under the Broad One Health 
Endectocide-based Malaria Intervention in Africa project, a cluster-randomised 
trial to assess the impact of ivermectin on malaria transmission. The survey was 
conducted in all households of a sub-population created for the trial, and it 
included questions about WASH-related practices at the household level.
RESULTS: The results showed that  4200 (56.29%) households have an improved 
water source at walking distance, which is drastically different to sanitation 
practices, where 6608 (88.56%) households do not have access to at least one 
basic sanitation service. Data on water access for Mopeia was similar to that 
reported in rural contexts in sub-Saharan Africa, yet the district remains 
off-track from achieving universal safe water coverage in the next few years. 
Regarding sanitation, the use of unsafe sanitation services is more widespread 
than in the average rural sub-Saharan Africa (75.00%), with twice as many 
households (n = 3897, 56.08%) practising open land defecation.
CONCLUSIONS: Mopeia is still far from achieving universal safe water and 
sanitation coverage by 2030, especially in sanitation, and remains prone to 
outbreaks and has a high burden of WASH-related diseases.

Copyright © 2025 by the Journal of Global Health. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7189/jogh.15.04197
PMCID: PMC12247658
PMID: 40643183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of interest: The authors completed 
the ICMJE Disclosure of Interest Form (available upon request from the 
corresponding author) and disclose no relevant interests.


64. ACS Infect Dis. 2025 Jul 11. doi: 10.1021/acsinfecdis.5c00319. Online ahead
of  print.

Functional Phenotyping of MMV Pandemic Response Box Identifies Stage and 
Mechanism-Specific Inhibitors against Blood Stage Plasmodium falciparum.

T P A(1)(2), K M D(1), Chandramohanadas R(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Red Cell Diseases, Division of Pathogen Biology, BRIC-Rajiv 
Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, Thiruvananthapuram 695014, India.
(2)Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka 576104, India.

Widespread drug resistance necessitates the prioritization of novel scaffolds 
with alternate mechanisms as possible partner drugs to artemisinin to combat 
malaria. We utilized the Pandemic Response Box chemical library of the Medicines 
for Malaria Venture, launched in 2019, to identify inhibitors with 
stage-specific potency and phenotypic signatures against the blood stage 
development of Plasmodium falciparum (P. falciparum) toward exploring drug 
repurposing. From this screening, we initially identified 60 molecules active at 
10 μM against both drug-sensitive (3D7) and chloroquine-resistant (Dd2) strains 
of P. falciparum. Furthermore, 28 compounds active below 3 μM were prioritized, 
several of which specifically impaired stage transitions of ring (MMV001014), 
trophozoite (MMV1593540 and MMV1634402), and schizonts (MMV1580844, MMV1580496, 
MMV1580173, and MMV1580483), confirmed through microscopic phenotypes and flow 
cytometry. The ring stage inhibitor, MMV001014, was irreversible, led to no 
recrudescence, and showed antagonistic effects with artemisinin, indicative of 
overlapping mechanisms. Both the trophozoite inhibitors, MMV1593540 and 
MMV1634402, exhibited nanomolar EC50, among which MMV1593540 was additive with 
artemisinin while antagonistic with chloroquine. Two of the schizont stage 
inhibitors (MMV1580844 and MMV1580173) appeared to operate through a mechanism 
driven by the generation of reactive oxygen species, and all of them with 
molecule-specific effects on infected red blood cell (iRBC) membrane integrity, 
confirmed through confocal microscopy. Taken together, these results highlight 
interesting starting points with likely unique modes of action from MMV's 
pandemic response box for drug repurposing to combat human malaria that 
continues to impact the developing world.

DOI: 10.1021/acsinfecdis.5c00319
PMID: 40643161


65. Front Immunol. 2025 Jun 26;16:1620366. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1620366. 
eCollection 2025.

Vaccine-induced responses to R21/Matrix-M - an analysis of samples from a phase 
1b age de-escalation, dose-escalation trial.

Bundi C(#)(1)(2), Bellamy D(#)(3), Kibwana E(1), Nyamako L(1), Ogwang R(1), 
Keter K(1), Kimani D(1), Salman AM(3), Provstgaard-Morys S(3), Stockdale L(3), 
Hill AVS(3), Bejon P(1)(4), Olotu A(2), Hamaluba M(1)(4), Ewer KJ(#)(3), Kapulu 
MC(#)(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Geographic Medicine Research, Coast, Kenya Medical Research 
Institute-Wellcome Trust Research Programme, Kilifi, Kenya.
(2)Ifakara Health Institute, Bagamoyo Research and Training Centre, 
Bagamoyo, Tanzania.
(3)The Jenner Institute, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(4)Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of 
Medicine, University Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: The pre-erythrocytic malaria vaccine R21 vaccine adjuvanted with 
Matrix-M reported good efficacy (75%) in an ongoing phase 3 trial and was 
recommended World Health Organization for use in children 5-36 months. 
Vaccine-induced antibodies against NANP are associated with protection, however, 
various factors such as age, pre-existing immunity, and vaccine dose have been 
shown to influence vaccine responses.
METHODS: Samples from adults (n =18), children (n = 17), and infants (n = 51) 
vaccinated with R21/Matrix-M in a phase I trial were assayed for 
vaccine-specific antibody responses. We measured antibodies (quantity) by MSD 
and ELISA; and function (quality) by complement (C1q) fixation assay, inhibition 
of sporozoite invasion (ISI) assay, and avidity assay. Pre-existing malaria 
antibody exposure was assessed using an anti-3D7 Plasmodium falciparum crude 
parasite lysate ELISA.
RESULTS: Vaccine-induced CSP antibodies (against full-length R21, NANP, and C 
terminus), exhibited complement fixation and inhibition of sporozoites. These 
were significantly lower in adults compared to children and infants. 
Additionally, children had a higher rate of decay of vaccine-induced antibodies 
compared to adults 2 years post-vaccination. Furthermore, a higher Matrix-M 
adjuvant dose resulted in significantly higher C1q fixation, and ISI than the 
low adjuvant dose in infants. Importantly, functional measures ISI and 
C1q-fixation were positively associated with the vaccine-induced antibodies 
overall, but avidity was not. Interestingly, in adults, previous malaria 
exposure was negatively associated with ISI but positively correlated with 
avidity and C1q fixation. At baseline, all the study participants were 
seropositive for anti-HBsAg IgG above the WHO-required protective threshold of 
10 mIU/mL, and titers significantly increased post-vaccination.
DISCUSSION: R21/Matrix-M was immunogenic across all age groups, with age and 
vaccine dose significantly affecting antibody magnitude and function. These 
findings emphasize the importance of evaluating the right adjuvant and vaccine 
dose for clinical development progression. This could thus inform the 
development of next-generation malaria vaccines. However, additional crucial 
factors need further exploration.

Copyright © 2025 Bundi, Bellamy, Kibwana, Nyamako, Ogwang, Keter, Kimani, 
Salman, Provstgaard-Morys, Stockdale, Hill, Bejon, Olotu, Hamaluba, Ewer and 
Kapulu.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1620366
PMCID: PMC12241110
PMID: 40642064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: KE was an employee of the University of Oxford 
at the time of the work and KE and AH are named inventors on a patent related to 
the R21 vaccine. KE is now employed by GSK and owns restricted shares in GSK. 
The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of 
any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that they were an editorial board 
member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. This had no impact on the peer 
review process and the final decision.


66. Afr J Lab Med. 2024 Nov 21;13(1):2516. doi: 10.4102/ajlm.v13i1.2516.
eCollection  2024.

Impact of artificial intelligence and digital technology-based diagnostic tools 
for communicable and non-communicable diseases in Africa.

Obi CL(1), Olowoyo JO(2)(3), Malevu TD(4)(5), Mugivhisa LL(3), Hungwe T(6), 
Ogunrombi MO(7), Mkolo NM(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Science and Technology, Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University, 
Pretoria, South Africa.
(2)Department of Health Sciences and The Water School, Florida Gulf Coast 
University, Fort Myers, Florida, United States.
(3)Department of Biology and Environmental Sciences, School of Science and 
Technology, Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University, Pretoria, South Africa.
(4)Department of Physics, School of Science and Technology, Sefako Makgatho 
Health Sciences University, Pretoria, South Africa.
(5)Department of Physics, School of Physical and Chemical Sciences, North-West 
University, Mahikeng, South Africa.
(6)Department of Computer Science and Information Technology, School of Science 
and Technology, Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University, Pretoria, South 
Africa.
(7)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, School of Medicine, 
Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University, Pretoria, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: Artificial intelligence (AI) and digital technology, as advanced 
human-created tools, are influencing the healthcare sector.
AIM: This review provides a comprehensive and structured exploration of the 
opportunities presented by AI and digital technology to laboratory diagnostics 
and management of communicable and non-communicable diseases in Africa.
METHODS: The study employed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic 
Reviews, Meta-Analyses guidelines and Bibliometric analysis as its 
methodological approach. Peer-reviewed publications from 2000 to 2024 were 
retrieved from PubMed®, Web of Science™ and Google Scholar databases.
RESULTS: The study incorporated a total of 1563 peer-reviewed scientific 
documents and, after filtration, 37 were utilised for systematic review. The 
findings revealed that AI and digital technology play a key role in patient 
management, quality assurance and laboratory operations, including healthcare 
decision-making, disease monitoring and prognosis. Metadata reflected the 
disproportionate research outputs distribution across Africa. In relation to 
non-communicable diseases, Egypt, South Africa, and Morocco lead in 
cardiovascular, diabetes and cancer research. Representing communicable diseases 
research, Algeria, Egypt, and South Africa were prominent in HIV/AIDS research. 
South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, and Egypt lead in malaria and tuberculosis 
research.
CONCLUSION: Facilitation of widespread adoption of AI and digital technology in 
laboratory diagnostics across Africa is critical for maximising patient 
benefits. It is recommended that governments in Africa allocate more funding for 
infrastructure and research on AI to serve as a catalyst for innovation.
WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS: This review provides a comprehensive and context-specific 
analysis of AI's application in African healthcare.

© 2024. The Authors.

DOI: 10.4102/ajlm.v13i1.2516
PMCID: PMC12242046
PMID: 40642055

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no financial 
or personal relationships that may have inappropriately influenced them in 
writing this article.


67. J Assoc Med Microbiol Infect Dis Can. 2024 Jun 12;9(2):113-120. doi: 
10.3138/jammi-2023-0036. eCollection 2024 Jun.

Brainstorm: A Case of Granulomatous Encephalitis.

Benoit P(1)(2), Wang S(3), Wang C(4), Chakravarti A(1)(2), Villalba JA(5), Ali 
IKM(6), Roy S(6), Sapp SG(7), Reagan-Steiner S(5), Nelson K(4), Cayrol R(8), 
Luong ML(1)(2), Grand'Maison S(3), Desjardins M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Centre hospitalier 
de l'Université de Montréal (CHUM), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Infectiology and Immunology, Université de 
Montréal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(3)Division of Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Centre hospitalier de 
l'Université de Montréal (CHUM), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(4)Department of Radiology, Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal 
(CHUM), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(5)Infectious Diseases Pathology Branch (IDPB), Division of High-Consequence 
Pathogens and Pathology, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Diseases, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, Georgia, United 
States.
(6)Waterborne Disease Prevention Branch (WDPB), Division of Foodborne, 
Waterborne and Environmental Diseases (DFWED), National Center for Emerging and 
Zoonotic Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, 
Georgia, United States.
(7)Laboratory Science and Diagnostics Branch, Division of Parasitic Diseases and 
Malaria, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Diseases, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, Georgia, United States.
(8)Department of Pathology, Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal 
(CHUM), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Free-living amoebas (FLAs) can cause severe and fatal central 
nervous system infections that are difficult to diagnose.
METHODS: We present the case of a 74-year-old immunocompetent woman admitted for 
focal neurological symptoms with enhancing lesions in the right cerebellar 
hemisphere. A first cerebral biopsy showed granulomatous inflammation, but no 
microorganisms were identified. After transient clinical improvement, she 
eventually deteriorated 4 months after initial presentation, with an MRI 
confirming multiple new masses affecting all cerebral lobes.
RESULTS: A second brain biopsy revealed granulomatous and acute inflammation 
with organisms containing a large central nucleus with prominent karyosome, 
consistent with FLAs. Immunohistochemical and polymerase chain reaction assays 
performed at CDC were positive for Acanthamoeba spp, confirming the diagnosis of 
granulomatous amoebic encephalitis (GAE) caused by Acanthamoeba spp. The patient 
was treated with combination therapy recommended by CDC, but died a few days 
later. Upon histopathological rereview, amoebic cysts and trophozoites were 
identified by histochemical and immunohistochemical methods in the first 
cerebral biopsy.
CONCLUSION: FLA infections can be challenging to diagnose because of the low 
incidence, non-specific clinical and radiological presentation, lack of 
accessible diagnostic tools, and clinicians' unfamiliarity. This case highlights 
the importance of recognizing FLA as a potential cause of granulomatous 
encephalitis, even in the absence of risk factors, as early treatment might be 
associated with favourable outcomes in case reports. When suspected, CDC 
laboratories offer tests to confirm the diagnosis promptly.

Publisher: HISTORIQUE: Les amibes libres peuvent causer des infections du 
système nerveux central graves et fatales qui sont difficiles à diagnostiquer.
MÉTHODOLOGIE: Les auteurs présentent le cas d'une femme immunocompétente de 
74 ans hospitalisée à cause de symptômes neurologiques focaux avec lésions 
rehaussantes dans l'hémisphère cérébelleux droit. Une première biopsie cérébrale 
a révélé une inflammation granulomateuse, mais aucun microorganisme n'a été 
décelé. Après une amélioration clinique transitoire, son état s'est détérioré 
quatre mois après la première consultation, et l'IRM a confirmé de multiples 
nouvelles masses touchant tous les lobes cérébraux.
RÉSULTATS: Une deuxième biopsie cérébrale a révélé une inflammation 
granulomateuse aiguë par des organismes dont les gros noyaux centraux et les 
caryosomes volumineux étaient évocateurs d'amibes libres. L'immunohistochimie et 
l'amplification en chaîne par polymérase effectuées aux CDC se sont avérés 
positives pour Acanthamoeba spp, ce qui a confirmé un diagnostic d'encéphalite 
amibienne granulomateuse causée par Acanthamoeba spp. La patiente a reçu une 
polythérapie recommandée par les CDC, mais est malheureusement décédée quelques 
jours plus tard. À la reprise de l'analyse histopathologique, des kystes 
amibiens et des trophozoïtes ont été décelés dans la première biopsie cérébrale 
par des méthodes histochimiques et immunohistochimiques.
CONCLUSION: Les infections par des amibes libres peuvent être difficiles à 
diagnostiquer en raison de leur faible incidence, de leur présentation clinique 
et radiologique non spécifique, de l'absence d'outils diagnostiques accessibles 
et de la méconnaissance des cliniciens. Ce cas renforce l'importance d'inclure 
les amibes libres dans les causes potentielles d'encéphalite granulomateuse, 
même en l'absence de facteurs de risque, car un traitement rapide a été associé 
à des résultats favorables dans certains rapports de cas. Lorsqu'on en soupçonne 
la présence, les laboratoires des CDC offrent des tests pour confirmer 
rapidement le diagnostic.

© Association of Medical Microbiology and Infectious Disease Canada (AMMI 
Canada), 2024.

DOI: 10.3138/jammi-2023-0036
PMCID: PMC12169439
PMID: 40641815

Conflict of interest statement: The findings and conclusions of this report are 
those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official position of 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).


68. Sultan Qaboos Univ Med J. 2025 May 2;25(1):336-340. doi: 
10.18295/2075-0528.2842.

Symmetrical Peripheral Gangrene Associated with Plasmodium Vivax Malaria: A case 
report with a brief review of literature.

Chandra A(1), Shah KA(2), Ganguly D(3), Chatterjee R(4), Dasgupta S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Calcutta National Medical College, Kolkata, 
India.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, 
Kolkata, India.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Midnapore Medical College and Hospital, 
Midnapore, India.
(4)Department of Tropical Medicine, Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine, 
Kolkata, India.
(5)Department of Critical Care Medicine, IPGMER and SSKM Hospital, Kolkata, 
India.

Symmetrical peripheral gangrene (SPG) is an exceptionally uncommon complication 
of malaria, predominantly linked with Plasmodium falciparum and mixed 
infections. We report a 41-year-old female who presented to a tertiary care 
centre of eastern India in 2022 with complaint of fever with chills and rigor 
for 4 days along with pain and acrocyanosis of distal portions of bilateral 
upper and lower limbs for last 2 days. Investigations revealed anaemia and 
neutrophilic leucocytosis with thrombocytopaenia. The peripheral smear revealed 
trophozoites of P. vivax and the malaria rapid diagnostic test confirmed the 
presence of P. vivax antigen. D-dimer and fibrin degradation product was 
elevated and prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time were 
prolonged; arterial colour doppler of all 4 extremities were within normal 
limits. A diagnosis of P. vivax malaria was made complicated with disseminated 
intravascular coagulation leading to SPG.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.18295/2075-0528.2842
PMCID: PMC12244251
PMID: 40641687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Malar J. 2025 Jul 10;24(1):224. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05471-x.

A 3D culture model facilitates mass production of in vitro Plasmodium falciparum 
haemolymph-like sporozoites.

Hatzakis K(1), MacMillen Z(1), Kirtley P(2), Aleshnick M(2), Martinson T(2), 
Gupta P(3), Swearingen KE(4), Wilder BK(2), Davie JW(1), Avril M(5).

Author information:
(1)MalarVx, Inc., 1551 Eastlake Ave, E Suite 100, Seattle, WA, 98102, USA.
(2)OHSU West Campus, 505 NW 185th Ave, RM 2224, Beaverton, OR, 97006, USA.
(3)Seattle Children's Research Institute, Seattle, WA, 98109, USA.
(4)Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, WA, 98109, USA.
(5)MalarVx, Inc., 1551 Eastlake Ave, E Suite 100, Seattle, WA, 98102, USA. 
mavril@malarvx.com.

BACKGROUND: The in vitro cultivation of individual stages of the Plasmodium 
falciparum mosquito life cycle is notably challenging. The main difficulty is 
replicating the intricate nutrient and metabolite exchanges necessary for oocyst 
development and sporozoite (SPZ) formation in the three-dimensional environment 
of the mosquito midgut. Replicating these conditions is essential for 
understanding the biological interactions between mosquito and parasite, as well 
as advancing malaria vaccine development.
METHODS: An in vitro three-dimensional system was developed that closely mimics 
the mosquito midgut epithelium, basal lamina, and haemolymph, facilitating the 
production of substantial quantities of haemolymph-like Pf SPZ.
RESULTS: Use of an extracellular matrix-coated Alvetex® Strata scaffold, 
combined with optimized culture medium, supports efficient oocyst attachment and 
provides the necessary nutrients for robust production of haemolymph-like SPZ. 
This system enables full maturation of oocysts, as shown by immunofluorescence 
assays (IFA), and allows timely release of in vitro SPZ (IVS) between days 11 
and 15, comparable to the in vivo mosquito timeline. Haemolymph-like SPZ 
generated were found to be infectious, as evidenced by successful HC04 infection 
in in vitro and in vivo studies using FRG-huHep mice. Similar outcomes were 
observed across different P. falciparum strains.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of the Alvetex Strata scaffold, optimized medium, 
and improved ookinete production consistently enables in vitro generation of 
large quantities of haemolymph-like SPZ.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05471-x
PMCID: PMC12243369
PMID: 40640876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate.: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. No 
personal identifiable data were used in the study. All authors have provided 
consent to publish the findings in this study. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


70. Parasit Vectors. 2025 Jul 10;18(1):277. doi: 10.1186/s13071-025-06921-w.

Characteristics of malaria vector populations and transmission before a 
randomised controlled trial assessing the efficacy of next-generation 
insecticide-treated nets in Côte d'Ivoire.

Ahoua Alou LP(1)(2), Koffi AA(3)(4), Dangbenon E(4), Camara S(3)(4), Biggs J(5), 
Zoh MG(4)(6), Assi SB(3), Sih C(5), Talbot B(7), Kulkarni MA(7), Messenger 
LA(8)(9), Protopopoff N(10)(11), Cook J(5)(12), N'Guessan R(4)(8).

Author information:
(1)Institut Pierre Richet (IPR)/Institut National de Santé Publique (INSP), 
Bouaké, Côte d'Ivoire. ludovicalou@gmail.com.
(2)Vector Control Product Evaluation Centre (VCPEC-IPR/INSP), Bouaké, Côte 
d'Ivoire. ludovicalou@gmail.com.
(3)Institut Pierre Richet (IPR)/Institut National de Santé Publique (INSP), 
Bouaké, Côte d'Ivoire.
(4)Vector Control Product Evaluation Centre (VCPEC-IPR/INSP), Bouaké, Côte 
d'Ivoire.
(5)Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, Department of Infectious 
Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, 
WC1E 7HT, UK.
(6)Centre d'Entomologie Médicale et Vétérinaire, Université Alassane Ouattara 
(CEMV-UAO), Bouaké, Côte d'Ivoire.
(7)School of Epidemiology & Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(8)Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, Disease Control Department, 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, WC1E 7HT, UK.
(9)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, School of Public Health, 
University of Nevada, Las Vegas, NV, 89154, USA.
(10)Health Interventions Unit, Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, 
Swiss Tropical & Public Health Institute, Kreuzstrasse 2, 4123, Allschwill, 
Switzerland.
(11)University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(12)Medical Research Council (MRC) International Statistics and Epidemiology 
Group, Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology and International Health, 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, WC1E 7HT, UK.

BACKGROUND: The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends mass distribution of 
insecticide-treated nets (ITNs) to prevent malaria transmission. Unfortunately, 
resistance to pyrethroids affects the efficacy of standard ITNs. To overcome 
this resistance and continue to protect the population, the WHO has recommended 
new types of ITNs that combine a pyrethroid insecticide with either a synergist 
(PBO) or a second insecticide, such as chlorfenapyr. This study examines the 
baseline characteristics of malaria vectors prior to the distribution of three 
types of insecticide-treated nets as part of a three-arm randomised controlled 
trial: Interceptor G2 (pyrethroid-chlorfenapyr), VEERALIN (pyrethroid-PBO), and 
MAGNet (pyrethroid only).
METHODS: The study was carried out in 40 villages (grouped into 33 clusters) of 
Tiébissou district in central Côte d'Ivoire. To assess biting rate and biting 
behaviour, human landing catches were conducted hourly indoors and outdoors in 
six randomly selected houses in each cluster, starting at 18:00 and continuing 
until 08:00 the next morning. Adult mosquitoes collected were morphologically 
identified, and a subset of Anopheles gambiae sensu lato (s.l.) and An. funestus 
s.l. were speciated by quantitative PCR (qPCR). Plasmodium sporozoite infections 
were detected by qPCR to estimate infection rates. The entomological inoculation 
rate was calculated as the product of the mosquito biting rate and the 
sporozoite infection rate.
RESULTS: Among the 10,698 mosquitoes collected, An. gambiae s.l. was the 
predominant species, accounting for 62.5% (n = 6683) of the catch, followed by 
An. funestus s.s., which accounted for 19.8% (n = 2120). Of the sub-sample of 
An. gambiae s.l. processed by PCR, 79.0% (n = 1291/1635) were An. coluzzii and 
the remaining were Anopheles gambiae s.s. Malaria vectors were highly 
aggressive, with an average of 14.8 bites/person/night for An. coluzzii, 2.0 
b/p/n for An. gambiae s.s. and 5.4 b/p/n for An. funestus, representing an 
overall average of 22.2 b/p/n (95% CI 17.2-27.2 b/p/n). No significant 
difference was found in biting activity between indoor and outdoor environments 
(Z = -0.25, P = 0.803). Plasmodium sporozoite infection rate was 2.4% (95% CI 
1.3-3.6%) for An. coluzzii, 1.5% (95% CI 0.3-2.6%) for An. gambiae s.s. and 2.7% 
(95% CI 1.2-4.3%) for An. funestus. The estimated overall entomological 
inoculation rate was 0.4 infected b/p/n (95% CI 0.3-0.6) and varied between 0.0 
and 0.2 infective bites/person/night according to species. There was no 
difference observed in entomological infection rate (EIR) between capture 
locations (indoors versus outdoors; Z = 1.521, P = 0.128).
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that An. coluzzii and An. funestus were the main 
malaria vectors and showed similar biting patterns both indoors and outdoors. 
Anopheles funestus was found in high density in a limited number of villages. 
Malaria transmission was high despite universal distribution of pyrethroid-ITN 
in the district.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-025-06921-w
PMCID: PMC12247193
PMID: 40640866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The protocol of this study was reviewed and approved by the 
Institutional Ethics Committee of Ministry of Health of Côte d’Ivoire (ref: 
002-23/MSHPCMU/CNESVS-km) and the institutional review board of London school of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (ref: 28390). Written informed consent was 
obtained from all household heads and field workers after presenting detailed 
information on the study. Field workers were paid for their work and received a 
vaccine against yellow fever as a prophylactic measure. They were also offered 
medical treatment for any case of malaria that developed during the period of 
their employment. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: 
Louisa Messenger is an Associate Editor for Parasites & Vectors. The authors 
declare no competing interests.


71. Nature. 2025 Jul 9. doi: 10.1038/d41586-025-02186-6. Online ahead of print.

Daily briefing: The first malaria treatment for babies wins approval.

Graham F.

DOI: 10.1038/d41586-025-02186-6
PMID: 40640604


72. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 10;15(1):24867. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10545-6.

Synthesis of thiosemicarbazone Schiff base derivatives as anti-leishmanial 
agents and molecular dynamics simulations insights.

Molaei S(1), Shiran JA(2), Shakour N(3)(4), Baradaran M(#)(5)(6), Malihi 
Z(#)(5)(6), Rahimi MR(6), Zal YA(6), Sepehri S(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Zoonoses Research Center, Ardabil University of Medical Sciences, Ardabil, 
Iran.
(2)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Ardabil University of Medical 
Sciences, Ardabil, Iran.
(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Students Research Committee, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(5)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, Ardabil University of 
Medical Sciences, Ardabil, Iran.
(6)Students Research Committee, School of Pharmacy, Ardabil University of 
Medical Sciences, Ardabil, Iran.
(7)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Ardabil University of Medical 
Sciences, Ardabil, Iran. saghisepehridr@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, Ardabil University of 
Medical Sciences, Ardabil, Iran. saghisepehridr@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Leishmaniasis is one of the infectious diseases caused by protozoa and is 
considered the second most significant parasitic disease after malaria. In this 
research, thiosemicarbazone Schiff base derivatives were synthesized via a 
one-pot, two-step, three-component reaction. Then, the effectiveness of the 
compounds against the two forms of Leishmania major and Leishmania tropica 
called amastigote and promastigote, was tested. All synthesized compounds 
displayed weak to good anti-amastigote and anti-promastigote activities. 
Notably, compounds 5g and 5p were the most potent compounds against amastigote 
and promastigote forms, respectively, of Leishmania major, with IC50 = 26.7 µM 
and 12.77 µM. Analogues 5e and 5g were the most potent compounds against 
amastigote and promastigote forms of Leishmania tropica, with IC50 = 92.3 µM and 
12.77 µM, respectively. The cytotoxicity activity of the compounds was also 
evaluated using the J774.A1 cell lines. Some of the screened derivatives 
displayed low cytotoxicity to macrophage infection. Among compounds, 5p and 5e 
showed the highest SI (95.4 and 34.6) against L. major and L. tropica, 
respectively. In the next phase, the most effective thiosemicarbazone 
derivatives were examined for their ability to induce apoptosis in 
promastigotes. According to the results, these compounds displayed different 
early and late apoptosis as well as necrotic effects on promastigotes of 
Leishmania major and Leishmania tropica. Furthermore, the compounds' 
drug-likeness and pharmacokinetic parameters were predicted in silico. All 
compounds showed acceptable drug-likeness and pharmacokinetic profiles. 
Furthermore, the most likely sites of the compounds metabolized by the major 
cytochromes were identified. Additionally, the in silico compounds' 
cardiotoxicity potential was assessed. This investigation showed compounds 5m-p 
were cardiotoxic. Lastly, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations 
were performed to explore the potential mechanisms of anti-leishmanial activity 
in the LmPRT1 active site.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10545-6
PMCID: PMC12246158
PMID: 40640503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


73. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2025 Jul 10:tpmd240735. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.24-0735. Online
 ahead of print.

Imported Malaria Outbreak in Military Personnel Returning from Peacekeeping 
Operation in South Sudan - Thailand, 2023.

Sirirungreung A(1), Sangwanborirak P(2), Naprasith K(2), Jongcherdchootrakul 
K(1), Kittikanara P(3), Yokanit W(3), Tabprasit S(3), Lumpaopong A(2), Rangsin 
R(4), Mungthin M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Military and Community Medicine, Phramongkutklao College of 
Medicine, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine Division, Royal Thai Army Medical 
Department, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Armed Forces Research Institute of Medical Sciences, Bangkok, Thailand.
(4)Phramongkutklao College of Medicine, Bangkok, Thailand.
(5)Department of Parasitology, Phramongkutklao College of Medicine, Bangkok, 
Thailand.

Malaria remains a global health concern, with Thailand primarily experiencing 
cases in border areas and from imported infections. During the third rotation of 
Thai peacekeeping troops returning from South Sudan between June and November 
2023, a malaria outbreak was reported. In response to the outbreak, we conducted 
a retrospective cohort study, in which we identified 46 confirmed cases of 
malaria, with 27 occurring postdeployment. The most common species were 
Plasmodium falciparum (n = 19) and Plasmodium ovale (n = 16), with a median 
postdeployment time to first symptom of 14 weeks (interquartile range: 9-28). 
The analysis revealed that those relying on informal sources for malaria 
knowledge, such as friends, were at higher risk (hazard ratio: 4.92; 95% CI: 
1.97-12.28). Challenges with prophylaxis adherence and glucose-6-phosphate 
dehydrogenase deficiency-related hemolysis were identified. This study calls for 
improved malaria prevention in South Sudan, better postdeployment monitoring, 
enhanced education for troops, and research on terminal prophylaxis to reduce 
cases.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.24-0735
PMID: 40639370


74. Ticks Tick Borne Dis. 2025 Jul 9;16(4):102514. doi: 
10.1016/j.ttbdis.2025.102514. Online ahead of print.

IxsS7: A novel biomarker for Ixodes scapularis tick bite exposure in humans.

Kelly PH(1), Cummings DAT(2), Iniguez E(3), Donatelli T(3), Rogerio L(3), Kotál 
J(4), Martins LA(5), Berger M(6), Sousa-Paula LC(7), Lu S(7), Stark JH(8), Ng 
SP(9), Marques A(9), Valenzuela JG(10), Tirloni L(11).

Author information:
(1)Global Vaccines Medical Affairs, Pfizer Research & Development, NY, NY, USA.
(2)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Vector Molecular Biology Section, Laboratory of Malaria and Vector Research, 
Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Diseases (NIAID), Rockville, MD, USA.
(4)Tick-Pathogen Transmission Unit, Laboratory of Bacteriology, Rocky Mountain 
Laboratories, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases (NIAID), Hamilton, MT, USA; Department of Medical Biology, 
Faculty of Science, University of South Bohemia in České Budějovice, Budweis, 
Czech Republic.
(5)Tick-Pathogen Transmission Unit, Laboratory of Bacteriology, Rocky Mountain 
Laboratories, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases (NIAID), Hamilton, MT, USA; Department of Biochemistry and 
Molecular Biology, University of Nevada, Reno, NV, USA.
(6)Tick-Pathogen Transmission Unit, Laboratory of Bacteriology, Rocky Mountain 
Laboratories, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases (NIAID), Hamilton, MT, USA; Centro de Pesquisa Experimental, 
Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(7)Tick-Pathogen Transmission Unit, Laboratory of Bacteriology, Rocky Mountain 
Laboratories, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases (NIAID), Hamilton, MT, USA.
(8)Global Vaccines Medical Affairs, Pfizer Research & Development, Cambridge, 
MS, USA.
(9)Lyme Disease Studies Unit, Laboratory of Clinical Immunology & Microbiology, 
Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Diseases (NIAID), Bethesda, MD, USA.
(10)Global Vaccines Medical Affairs, Pfizer Research & Development, NY, NY, USA; 
Vector Molecular Biology Section, Laboratory of Malaria and Vector Research, 
Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Diseases (NIAID), Rockville, MD, USA.
(11)Global Vaccines Medical Affairs, Pfizer Research & Development, NY, NY, USA; 
Tick-Pathogen Transmission Unit, Laboratory of Bacteriology, Rocky Mountain 
Laboratories, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases (NIAID), Hamilton, MT, USA. Electronic address: 
lucas.tirloni@nih.gov.

Ixodes scapularis is a primary vector of several important tick-borne pathogens 
including Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato, the causative bacterial genospecies 
complex of Lyme disease, Babesia microti, Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Borrelia 
miyamotoi, Ehrlichia muris eauclarensis, and Powassan virus. Salivary compounds 
secreted by I. scapularis during blood feeding are immunogenic and can elicit 
robust antibody responses in humans which can potentially be leveraged as 
surrogate markers of prior tick bite exposure. In this study, we investigate the 
potential of a tick secreted salivary serine protease inhibitor, IxsS7, as a 
novel antigenic biomarker of I. scapularis exposure in humans. We demonstrate 
that the IxsS7 protein-coding sequence is highly conserved (>90 % identity) 
among other important Ixodes species (e.g., Ixodes ricinus, Ixodes persulcatus, 
and Ixodes pacificus) and poorly conserved (<50 % identity) with homologs from 
other tick genera, such as Amblyomma spp., Dermacentor spp., Rhipicephalus spp., 
and Haemaphysalis spp. Antibodies in sera from rabbits immunized with 
recombinant IxsS7 (rIxsS7) strongly recognize native IxsS7 when challenged with 
salivary gland homogenate (SGH) from blood-fed I. scapularis females, while 
showing minimal cross-reactivity with SGH from other hard tick (Ixodidae) 
genera. Western blot and ELISA analyses revealed that human subjects who 
reported recent prior exposure to ticks possessed IgG antibodies that recognized 
rIxsS7, highlighting its potential as a biomarker of exposure specifically 
against I. scapularis. Further development of serological tools that can measure 
human antibody responses to Ixodes-specific salivary antigens is essential to 
better quantify individual- and population-level risk of important tick-borne 
diseases such as Lyme disease.

Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ttbdis.2025.102514
PMID: 40639194

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Some of this 
work was supported and jointly funded by Valneva and Pfizer as part of their 
co-development of a Lyme disease vaccine.


75. EBioMedicine. 2025 Jul 9;118:105835. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105835. Online
 ahead of print.

Assessment of ex vivo antimalarial drug efficacy in African Plasmodium 
falciparum parasite isolates, 2016-2023: a genotype-phenotype association study.

Rosado J(1), Fola AA(2), Cojean S(3), Sarrasin V(4), Coppée R(5), Bailly J(6), 
Zaffaroulah R(4), Bouzayene A(4), Cicéron L(4), Houzé L(4), Crudale R(2), Musset 
L(7), Thellier M(8), Pradines B(9), Clain J(10), Bailey JA(2), Houzé S(11); 
Investigation Study Group.

Collaborators: Aboubacar A, Agnamey P, Ahmed AB, Ajzenberg D, Angoulvant A, 
Ariey F, Aubry B, Banisadr F, Belaz S, Belkadi G, Belkadi GB, Bellanger AP, 
Bemba D, Benaoudia F, Bloch M, Botterel F, Bouden V, Bougnoux ME, Brump C, Brun 
S, Brunet J, Buret B, Caraux-Paz P, Celine N, Clauser S, Collin E, Dahane N, 
Damiani C, Dannaoui E, Dard C, Darde ML, Debourgogne A, Delacour T, Delarbre JM, 
Delaval A, Delcey V, Deleplancque AS, Desoubeaux G, Desuremain N, Dewulf G, 
Durand R, Durieux MF, Dutoit E, Eloy O, Faucher JF, Favennec L, Faye A, 
Fenneteau O, Ficko C, Frealle E, Gargala G, Garnaud C, Gentile L, Godineau N, 
Gorlicki J, Govic YL, Gravet A, Guennouni N, Hamane S, Hanslik T, Huguenin A, 
Hurst JP, Jeddi F, Jordan L, Landraud L, Lapillonne H, Larréché S, Lavergne RA, 
Lemoine JP, Leprince C, Lesteven E, Li A, Lohmann C, Louise B, Machouart MC, 
Malassigne C, Marteau A, Maubon D, Mazars E, Megarbane B, Mendes-Moreira A, 
Mermond S, Moal GL, Moreno A, Mornand P, Murat JB, Nabias R, Naudin J, Nevez G, 
Nourrisson C, Oussama M, Parez N, Patey O, Patoz P, Pean-De-Ponfilly G, Peltier 
JY, Penn P, Perignon A, Perraud-Cateau E, Pfaff A, Belaz S, Pihet M, Pilo JE, 
Poilane I, Poirier P, Poisson D, Pons D, Pull L, Quinio D, Raffenot D, Revest M, 
Robert G, Rogeaux O, Roosen G, Sasso M, Schmitt F, Sendid B, Senghor Y, Silva M, 
Siriez JY, Sitterlé E, Sorge F, Sylvie ME, Tantaoui I, Toubas D, Touil AC, 
Tournus C, Yera H.

Author information:
(1)Université Paris Cité, IRD, Inserm, MERIT, Paris, F-75006, France. Electronic 
address: jjrosados@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Brown University, RI, 02906, 
USA; Center for Computational Molecular Biology, Brown University, RI, 02906, 
USA.
(3)Centre National de Référence du Paludisme, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de 
Paris, Hôpital Bichat-Claude-Bernard, Paris, France; Université Paris-Saclay, 
Faculté de Pharmacie, Orsay, France; UMR BIPAR, Anses, Laboratoire de Santé 
Animale, INRAE, Ecole Nationale Vétérinaire d'Alfort, Maisons-Alfort, France.
(4)Centre National de Référence du Paludisme, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de 
Paris, Hôpital Bichat-Claude-Bernard, Paris, France.
(5)Université de Rouen Normandie, Laboratoire de Parasitologie-Mycologie, UR 
7510 ESCAPE, Rouen, France.
(6)Université Paris Cité, IRD, Inserm, MERIT, Paris, F-75006, France.
(7)Laboratoire de Parasitologie, World Health Organization Collaborating Center 
for Surveillance of Antimalarial Drug Resistance, Centre Nationale de Référence 
du Paludisme, Institut Pasteur de la Guyane, Cayenne, French Guiana.
(8)Centre National de Référence du Paludisme, Sorbonne Université, Assistance 
Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, Laboratoire de Mycologie et Parasitologie, 
Hôpital de la Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.
(9)Unité Parasitologie et Entomologie, Département des Maladies Infectieuses, 
Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées, Marseille, France; Aix Marseille 
Université, SSA, AP-HM, RITMES, Marseille, France; Centre National de Référence 
du Paludisme, Marseille, France; IHU-Méditerranée Infection, Marseille, France.
(10)Université Paris Cité, IRD, Inserm, MERIT, Paris, F-75006, France. 
Electronic address: jerome.clain@u-paris.fr.
(11)Université Paris Cité, IRD, Inserm, MERIT, Paris, F-75006, France; Centre 
National de Référence du Paludisme, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, 
Hôpital Bichat-Claude-Bernard, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Given the altered responses to both artemisinins and lumefantrine in 
Eastern Africa, monitoring antimalarial drug resistance in all African countries 
is paramount.
METHODS: We measured the susceptibility to six antimalarials using ex vivo 
growth inhibition assays (IC50) for a total of 805 Plasmodium falciparum 
isolates obtained from travellers returning to France (2016-2023), mainly from 
West and Central Africa. Isolates were sequenced using molecular inversion 
probes (MIPs) targeting forty-three genes across the parasite genome, of which 
nineteen are drug resistance genes.
FINDINGS: Ex vivo susceptibility of all assessed antimalarial compounds was 
consistent with their potent activity. The median IC50 values for the six drugs 
were 1.1 nM [IQR: 0.8-1.7] for DHA, 16.7 nM [9.9-27.4] for LMF, 29.5 nM 
[19.1-45.5] for MFQ, 23.4 nM [17.1-39.0] for MDAQ, 26.7 nM [18.0-41.2] for CQ, 
and 18.5 nM [15.1-24.3] for PPQ. Only four isolates carried a validated 
pfkelch13 mutation. Multiple mutations in pfcrt and one in pfmdr1 (Asn86Tyr) 
were significantly associated with altered susceptibility to multiple drugs, and 
their frequencies decreased over time. Pfcrt and pfmdr1 mutations altered 
susceptibility to lumefantrine and mefloquine in an additive manner, with the 
wild-type haplotype (pfcrt K76-pfmdr1 N86) exhibiting the lowest susceptibility.
INTERPRETATION: Our study on P. falciparum isolates from West and Central Africa 
indicates a low frequency of molecular markers associated with artemisinin 
resistance and a modest but significant decrease (1.6-2.3X) in the frequency of 
multidrug resistance markers. These genotypic changes likely mark parasite 
adaptation to sustained drug pressure and call for intensifying the monitoring 
of antimalarial drug resistance in Africa.
FUNDING: This work was supported by the French Ministry of Health (grant to the 
French National Malaria Reference Centre) and by the Agence Nationale de la 
Recherche (ANR-17-CE15-0013-03 to JC). JAB was supported by NIH R01AI139520. JR 
postdoctoral fellowship was funded by Institut de Recherche pour le 
Développement.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105835
PMID: 40639048

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


76. J Exp Med. 2025 Sep 1;222(9):e20250044. doi: 10.1084/jem.20250044. Epub 2025
Jul  10.

Epitope and HLA specificity of human TCRs against Plasmodium falciparum 
circumsporozoite protein.

van Dijk H(1), Wahl I(1), Kraker S(1), Robben PM(2), Dutta S(2), Wardemann H(1).

Author information:
(1)B Cell Immunology, German Cancer Research Center , Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Biologics Research and Development Branch, Center for Infectious Diseases 
Research, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research , Silver Spring, MD, USA.

Plasmodium falciparum malaria remains a significant global health challenge. 
Current vaccines elicit antibody responses against circumsporozoite protein 
(PfCSP) that prevent the infection of hepatocytes but offer only moderate 
protection. Cellular immunity has emerged as a critical component of 
preerythrocytic protection that might be leveraged to develop improved PfCSP 
vaccines. Here, we characterized the clonality, molecular features, epitope 
specificity, and HLA restrictions of the human PfCSP-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T 
cell response to vaccination with an adjuvanted PfCSP vaccine, FMP013/ALFQ. 
Using TCR expression cloning, we identified novel conserved CD4+ T cell epitopes 
in the PfCSP N terminus and showed that the C-terminal CS.T3 epitope was 
targeted by CD4+ and rare CD8+ T cells, which recognized this epitope 
co-receptor independently presented on a class II HLA. Our findings provide 
insights into the utility of these epitopes as targets for strain-transcending 
immunity compared with the immunodominant but highly polymorphic epitopes in the 
PfCSP C terminus, offering guidance for the design of improved malaria vaccines.

This is a work of the U.S. Government and is not subject to copyright protection 
in the United States. Foreign copyrights may apply.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.20250044
PMCID: PMC12243953
PMID: 40637713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: The authors declare no competing 
interests exist.


77. Cureus. 2025 Jun 9;17(6):e85624. doi: 10.7759/cureus.85624. eCollection 2025 
Jun.

Assessment of Malaria Burden and Community Response to Control and Management 
Programs.

Khatoon F(1), Shalaby NM(2)(3), Alginawi AE(4), Ahmed Kara ZA(3), Abdul-Latif 
MM(5), Elhussein GEMO(6), Alreshidi AA(7), Alreshidi FS(8), Alnourain FH(9), 
Musa Ismail ME(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Medicine, University of Ha'il, Ha'il, 
SAU.
(2)Department of Medical Parasitology, Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura, EGY.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Northern Border University, 
Arar, SAU.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Najran University, Narjan, 
SAU.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Northern Border University, 
Arar, SAU.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, College of Medicine, University of Ha'il, Ha'il, 
SAU.
(7)Department of Medicine, Vision College, Riyadh, SAU.
(8)Department of Family and Community Medicine, College of Medicine, University 
of Ha'il, Ha'il, SAU.
(9)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Najran 
University, Najran, SAU.
(10)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecological Nursing, Faculty of Applied 
Medical Sciences, Buraydah College, Buraydah, SAU.

INTRODUCTION: Malaria continues to be a significant public health issue, 
particularly in tropical and subtropical regions. Despite extensive efforts to 
reduce its burden through various control programs, malaria remains a major 
cause of morbidity and mortality. This study aims to assess the burden of 
malaria in a community and evaluate the community's response to malaria control 
and management programs.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess the prevalence of malaria and evaluate the 
community's awareness, participation, and response to malaria control and 
management programs.
METHODOLOGY: This cross-sectional study included 550 participants from a 
community-based population. Data were collected through interviews, surveys, and 
medical records to determine malaria prevalence, treatment-seeking behavior, and 
knowledge of malaria control measures such as insecticide-treated nets (ITNs), 
indoor residual spraying (IRS), and antimalarial treatments.
RESULTS:  The study found a malaria prevalence of 32% (176 participants), with 
higher rates in females at 35% (96 out of 275) compared to males at 30% (81 out 
of 275). A total of 85% (468 participants) recognized malaria symptoms. 
Awareness of prevention methods was reported by 72% (396 participants) for ITNs 
and 58% (319 participants) for IRS. Regarding treatment-seeking behavior, 60% 
(330 participants) visited health facilities, while 25% (138 participants) 
relied on traditional healers. Participation in malaria control programs was 
moderate: 62% (341 participants) reported using ITNs, and 50% (275 participants) 
had participated in IRS activities. Identified barriers included a lack of 
awareness in 30% (165 participants) and high costs in 20% (110 participants). 
Socioeconomic status influenced program engagement, with higher participation 
observed among individuals from wealthier households.
CONCLUSION: Although malaria control and management programs have had a positive 
impact, only 62% (341 participants) used ITNs and 50% (275 participants) engaged 
in IRS, indicating a gap in community adherence. Despite 85% (468 participants) 
being aware of malaria symptoms, knowledge and practical application of 
preventive measures remain suboptimal. Improving public education, enhancing 
access to malaria control tools, and addressing socioeconomic barriers are 
essential to effectively reduce the malaria burden in the community.

Copyright © 2025, Khatoon et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.85624
PMCID: PMC12240216
PMID: 40636615

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Institutional Review Board (IRB) Committee of University of Ha'il, KSA issued 
approval (UOH/2987/23). Animal subjects: All authors have confirmed that this 
study did not involve animal subjects or tissue. Conflicts of interest: In 
compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the 
following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial 
support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial 
relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial 
relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


78. Int J Crit Illn Inj Sci. 2025 Apr-Jun;15(2):96-97. doi: 
10.4103/ijciis.ijciis_59_25. Epub 2025 Jun 23.

The benefit of virtual cognitive training in pediatric cerebral malaria depends 
on numerous influencing factors that should be included in the analysis.

Finsterer J(1), Mahjoub SZ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Neurology and Neurophysiology Center, Vienna, 
Austria.
(2)Department of Genomics, Pasteur Institute of Tunis, University of Tunis El 
Manar and Genomics Platform, Tunis, Tunisia.

DOI: 10.4103/ijciis.ijciis_59_25
PMCID: PMC12236384
PMID: 40636072

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


79. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2025 Jul 10:traf069. doi: 10.1093/trstmh/traf069. 
Online ahead of print.

Genetic epidemiology of Plasmodium falciparum chloroquine resistance in coastal, 
North and Far North areas of Cameroon.

Kojom Foko LP(1), Narang G(1)(2), Jakhan J(1)(2), Hawadak J(1), Singh V(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Parasite & Host Biology, ICMR-National Institute of Malaria Research, New 
Delhi  110077, India.
(2)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad 201002, 
India.

BACKGROUND: Unravelling the population genetic structure and dynamics of 
drug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) strains is essential to adapt control 
strategies. Here, genetic and evolutionary patterns of P. falciparum chloroquine 
resistance transporter (Pfcrt) in Cameroon were analysed.
METHODS: Blood samples from P. falciparum-infected individuals living in a 
coastal area (Douala) and North and Far North areas (Maroua, Mayo-Oulo, Pette) 
were PCR-amplified and genotyped for the Pfcrt gene. Single nucleotide 
polymorphism analysis, haplotype network, neutral evolution and genetic 
differentiation patterns of Pfcrt sequences were also performed.
RESULTS: The wild-type CVMNK was dominant (97.1%) in the coastal area, while the 
resistance genotype CVIET (50-61.9%) was predominant in the North and Far North 
areas. The mutation 72S was significantly more often reported in asymptomatic 
infections (p=0.004) and submicroscopic parasitaemia cases (p=0.002). A 
signature of positive selection or population expansion was identified in Pfcrt 
sequences from Douala. The Pf populations from coastal, North and Far North 
areas were genetically differentiated.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests a return to chloroquine susceptibility 
geographically restricted in the coastal region. The high circulation of the 
genotype CVIET in North and Far North areas calls for investigations of factors 
contributing to the persistence of chloroquine-resistant strains.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Royal 
Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. All rights reserved. For commercial 
re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/trstmh/traf069
PMID: 40635523


80. Parasit Vectors. 2025 Jul 9;18(1):274. doi: 10.1186/s13071-025-06818-8.

High exposure to malaria vector bites despite high use of bednets in a setting 
of seasonal malaria in southwestern Mali: the urgent need for outdoor vector 
control strategies.

Sarrassat S(1), Toure M(2), Traore M(2), Diarra A(2), Coulibaly H(2), Arou 
AZ(2), Tangara CO(2), Muller G(2), Beier JC(3), Vontas J(4)(5), Bradley J(6), 
Traore SF(2), Doumbia S(2), Kleinschmidt I(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), Keppel Street, London, WC1E 7HT, UK. 
sophie.sarrassat@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)University Clinical Research Centre/University of Sciences, Techniques and 
Technologies of Bamako (UCRC/USTTB), Bamako, Mali.
(3)University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.
(4)Institute of Molecular Biology & Biotechnology/Foundation for Research and 
Technology, Athens, Greece.
(5)Agricultural University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(6)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), Keppel Street, London, WC1E 7HT, UK.
(7)Wits Research Institute for Malaria, School of Pathology, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: Early evening and outdoor biting by vector mosquitoes undermines the 
effectiveness of insecticide-treated nets (ITNs), as users of nets are exposed 
to vector biting whilst not under a net, both outdoors and indoors. This study 
assessed exposure to malaria vector bites amongst users and non-users of ITNs in 
southwestern Mali.
METHODS: Using cross-sectional household survey data of human behaviour and 
malaria infection prevalence, along with mosquito human landing catch (HLC) data 
collected in 30 separate communities, the average number of Anopheles gambiae 
sensu lato (s.l.) mosquito bites per person per night (bppn) received outdoors 
and indoors were estimated for each survey respondent. The proportion of bites 
that were not preventable by using a net, the relative contributions of outdoor 
and indoor residual biting, and the risk factors for exposure to vector bites 
were estimated.
RESULTS: Despite very high use of nets (93.2%), malaria infection prevalence was 
34% overall. A large proportion of respondents (78%) reported being outdoors at 
8 pm, but by midnight, 98% were indoors. Net users were exposed to indoor biting 
for 1 h, on average, between going indoors and going to bed. For 91%, the net 
used was an ITN. Human biting rates peaked between 2 and 4 am, when most people 
(90%) were in bed. Individuals using a net received 11.2 bppn in total, of which 
7.1 bppn (63%) occurred outdoors. Those not using a net received almost 10 times 
the number of bites indoors as net users (38.4 bppn versus 4.0 bppn). The total 
number of bites received by net users was about one third the total number of 
bites received by non-net users, indicating the proportion of bites not 
preventable by use of a net alone. Risk factors for biting exposure included not 
using a net, going indoors late, location near the river and age over 15 years.
CONCLUSIONS: ITNs substantially reduce exposure to indoor biting, but in this 
setting, net users still received a large number of Anopheles mosquito bites, 
giving rise to high malaria infection prevalence despite near-universal net use. 
Most residual biting occurred outdoors, but about a third still occurred with 
individuals indoors before going under a net. Effective interventions that 
reduce residual outdoor and indoor biting are necessary to reduce the high 
malaria burden in settings like southwestern Mali.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-025-06818-8
PMCID: PMC12243244
PMID: 40635025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study was approved by the ethics committees of the University 
of Sciences, Technologies and Techniques of Bamako (No 2021/124/CE/USTTB) and 
the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (Reference 17283-1). The 
trial was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04149119). Household survey 
respondents aged 18 years or older provided informed written consent, and 
parents or guardians of children under 18 provided informed written consent for 
their child’s participation. Those who were RDT-positive were treated according 
to national guidelines. The heads of households selected for entomological 
monitoring each month or their representatives were asked for written informed 
consent to participate. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


81. Malar J. 2025 Jul 9;24(1):223. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05390-x.

The economic burden of malaria in Africa: a systematic review of cost of illness 
studies.

Lamesgen A(1), Engidaw M(2), Gedif G(3), Gete M(4), Belay YA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Debre 
Markos University, Debre Markos, Ethiopia. antenehlamesgen10@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Public Health, College of Health Sciences, Woldia University, 
Woldia, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Debre 
Markos University, Debre Markos, Ethiopia.
(4)Department of Nursing, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Debre Markos 
University, Debre Markos, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: The burden of malaria is lower than ten years ago. However, in the 
last few years, there has been an increase in the number of malaria cases around 
the world. a systematic review of studies on the cost of malaria were conducted 
to understand its economic burden to the health system, the household, and the 
society as whole.
METHODS: Published articles on the cost of malaria in Africa from 2000 to 2024 
were included to this review. Cochrane library, PubMed, and google scholar were 
searched to access the included articles and the results of the studies were 
described using text, tables, and diagram. The costs of malaria were presented 
using minimum and maximum values.
RESULTS: The total treatment cost for simple (uncomplicated) malaria per case 
ranged from USD 4.03 to USD 31.23 and for the severe malaria, it ranged from USD 
10.48 to USD 70.86. The maximum preventive cost for insecticide-treated bed nets 
distribution per unit ITN, larvicide per individual, and indoor residual 
spraying per a single use was about USD 10.81, USD 28.43, and USD 18.55, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The cost variability across studies and/or countries might be 
accounted for either the use of different costing methods, spatial variation, or 
the population considered while estimating the cost for malaria. To synthesise 
the cost data using meta-analysis, studies on the COI required to follow uniform 
costing methods and considering the discount rates while calculating health 
service costs. It can also facilitate meaningful comparison of cost estimates 
and to apply the results for evidence-based practices. This review protocol was 
registered and approved by the international prospective register of systematic 
reviews with a Protocol ID: CRD42024563063.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05390-x
PMCID: PMC12243344
PMID: 40635005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


82. BMC Infect Dis. 2025 Jul 9;25(1):904. doi: 10.1186/s12879-025-11283-w.

Malaria vector diversity, transmission and insecticide resistance in Island 
communities along the Volta lake in Southern Ghana.

Ebuako AA(1), Owusu-Asenso CM(1), Abdulai A(1), Sabtiu ARM(1), Sraku IK(1), 
Akuamoah-Boateng Y(1), Appiah-Kwarteng C(2), Forson AO(3), Ayeh-Kumi PF(1), 
Afrane YA(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Vector-Borne Disease Research, Department of Medical Microbiology, 
University of Ghana Medical School, Korle-Bu, Accra, Ghana.
(2)School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Ghana, Legon, Accra, Ghana. 
cappiah-kwarteng@ug.edu.gh.
(3)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, School of Biomedical and Allied 
Health Sciences, University of Ghana, Korle-Bu, Accra, Ghana.
(4)Centre for Vector-Borne Disease Research, Department of Medical Microbiology, 
University of Ghana Medical School, Korle-Bu, Accra, Ghana. yafrane@ug.edu.gh.

INTRODUCTION: Island communities along the Volta Lake in southern Ghana present 
unique challenges for malaria control, characterized by high transmission rates, 
limited vector control measures and geographically isolated. This study assessed 
the malaria vector diversity, seasonal abundance, transmission and insecticide 
resistance status of malaria vectors in these communities to inform effective 
control strategies.
METHODS: Mosquitoes were collected from three Island communities (Tuanikope, 
Allorkpem and Pediatorkope) using human landing catches, light traps and 
prokopack aspirators during the dry and rainy seasons. Morphological and 
molecular techniques were used to identify mosquito species, determine blood 
meal sources and detect insecticide resistance mutations. Sporozoite infections 
and entomological inoculation rates (EIRs) were also quantified.
RESULTS: A total of 25,092 mosquitoes from four genera were collected 
(Culicine = 88.14%, Anopheline = 8.94% and Mansonia = 2.92%). The Anophelines 
predominantly comprised Anopheles gambiae s.l. (1,911/2,243, 85.20%) followed by 
An. rufipes (249/2,243, 11.10%) and An. pharoensis (83/2,243, 3.70%). Indoor 
biting and resting densities were high across sites and seasons, with 
sporozoite-positive mosquitoes more frequently found indoors. Blood meal 
analysis revealed a strong anthropophilic feeding pattern (HBI = 80%). Annual 
EIRs ranged from 37.40 (ib/m/y) to 100.08 (ib/m/y). Low frequencies of 
insecticide resistance mutations (Vgsc-1014 F, Vgsc-1014 S, Ace-1 and 
Vgsc-1575Y) were observed.
CONCLUSION: The study findings indicate high indoor biting and resting densities 
of Anopheles mosquitoes. High sporozoite rate along with low resistance mutation 
frequencies observed, emphasize the urgent need for continuous resistance 
monitoring and the implementation of targeted vector control strategies in these 
hard-to-reach Island communities.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-025-11283-w
PMCID: PMC12243191
PMID: 40634851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Ghana Health Service Ethics and 
Review Committee (GHS-ERC number: GHS-ERC: 051/03/23). The research was 
conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki’s ethical principles 
for medical research involving human participants. Meetings were conducted at 
each study site with the chiefs, community leaders, and residents to introduce 
the research. Permission to conduct the study at the various sites was obtained 
from the community leaders. Written informed consent was obtained from all adult 
volunteers participating in the HLC study prior to training and mosquito 
sampling. Verbal consent was obtained from household heads to sample mosquitoes 
in their houses and compounds. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


83. BMJ Open. 2025 Jul 8;15(7):e100251. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2025-100251.

Investigating the relationship between Pfkelch13 mutations and response to 
artemisinin-based treatment for uncomplicated falciparum malaria: a protocol for 
a systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis.

van Wyk S(1)(2)(3)(4), Dahal P(4)(5)(6), Vouvoungui C(2)(4)(6), Ayuen 
DS(2)(4)(7), Shokraneh F(2)(4)(7), Soma A(2)(4)(8), Watson JA(2)(4)(7), Guerin 
P(4)(5)(7)(9), Barnes KI(3)(4)(5)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town, Rondebosch, South Africa 
stephanie.vanwyk@gmail.com.
(2)IDDO, World Wide Antimalarial Resistance Network (WWARN), Oxford, UK.
(3)Mitigating Antimalarial Resistance Consortium in South-East Africa, Cape 
Town, South Africa.
(4)Infectious Diseases Data Observatory, Oxford, UK.
(5)World Wide Antimalarial Resistance Network (WWARN), Oxford, UK.
(6)Department of Nuffield, University of Oxford Centre for Tropical Medicine and 
Global Health, Oxford, UK.
(7)University of Oxford Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Oxford, 
UK.
(8)Fondation Congolaise pour la recherche Médicale, Brazzaville, UK.
(9)University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(10)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Cape Town, Rondebosch, 
South Africa.

INTRODUCTION: Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) remain the 
WHO-recommended treatment for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria. 
However, the emergence and spread of artemisinin resistance (ART-R) threatens 
ACT efficacy. ART-R is phenotypically expressed as delayed parasite clearance, 
which can facilitate ACT partner drug resistance. ART-R has been causally linked 
to specific mutations in the Pfkelch13 gene.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The systematic review and associated meta-analysis aim to 
determine the correlation between Pfkelch13 (alleles present in the Kelch13 gene 
region of the P. falciparum parasite) genotypes and clinical and parasitological 
response to ACTs from a globally representative data set pooling individual 
patient data (IPD) from eligible published and unpublished studies. The 
eligibility criteria include Pfkelch13 genotyping results at baseline 
complemented by individually linked parasitological and clinical assessments 
following artemisinin-based treatment. The data will be curated, standardised 
and analysed using this proposed statistical analysis plan (SAP), adhering to 
PRISMA-IPD (PRISMA, Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and 
Meta-Analyses) guidelines. Our SAP will apply hierarchical modelling to assess 
the effect of the P. falciparum parasite Pfkelch13 mutations on parasite 
clearance half-life and therapeutic efficacy across different regions. This will 
include study sites as random effects in the model and potential predictors such 
as age, sex, baseline parasite load and other potential effect modifiers as 
fixed effects. This analysis will enhance the understanding of the influence of 
Pfkelch13 mutations on malaria treatment outcomes.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Data were obtained with informed consent and ethical 
approvals from the relevant countries and were pseudonymised before curation in 
the Infectious Diseases Data Observatory (IDDO)/WorldWide Antimalarial 
Resistance Network (WWARN) repository. Data ownership remains with contributors. 
This IPD meta-analysis met the Oxford Tropical Research Ethics Committee 
criteria for waiving ethical review, as it is a secondary analysis of existing 
pseudonymised data. The resulting peer-reviewed publication and conference 
proceedings will help strengthen and enhance the efficiency of ART-R 
surveillance and response and support policy decisions.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42019133366.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2025-100251
PMCID: PMC12243583
PMID: 40633944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


84. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Jul 8;189:118331. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118331.  Online ahead of print.

Amitriptyline inhibits Plasmodium development in infected red blood cells by 
modulating sphingolipid metabolism and glucose uptake.

Hose M(1), Ninnemann A(2), Abberger H(3), Schumacher F(4), Naser E(5), Purkart 
L(6), Korbmacher F(7), Martins Nascentes Melo L(8), Beckmann N(5), Blietschau 
V(2), Falkenstein J(2), Kleuser B(4), Tasdogan A(8), Gulbins E(5), Carpinteiro 
A(5), Klopfleisch R(9), Buer J(2), Westendorf AM(2), Matuschewski K(6), Hansen 
W(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Microbiology, University Hospital Essen, University 
Duisburg-Essen, Germany. Electronic address: matthias.hose@uk-essen.de.
(2)Institute of Medical Microbiology, University Hospital Essen, University 
Duisburg-Essen, Germany.
(3)Institute of Medical Microbiology, University Hospital Essen, University 
Duisburg-Essen, Germany; Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, 
Parkville, VIC, Australia; Department of Medical Biology, University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.
(4)Institute of Pharmacy, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.
(5)Institute of Molecular Biology, University Hospital Essen, Germany.
(6)Department of Molecular Parasitology, Institute of Biology, Humboldt 
University Berlin, Germany.
(7)Department of Molecular Parasitology, Institute of Biology, Humboldt 
University Berlin, Germany; European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) 
Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Essen, and German Cancer 
Consortium (DKTK), Essen, Germany.
(9)Institute of Veterinary Pathology, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.

Malaria remains a global health challenge, necessitating novel therapeutic 
approaches. Here, we explore the role of the sphingolipid metabolism in 
Plasmodium infection. We focus on the enzyme acid sphingomyelinase (Asm), which 
hydrolyzes sphingomyelin to ceramide, a structural but also bioactive membrane 
molecule. We demonstrate induction of Asm activity in infected mice, leading to 
elevated ceramide levels in infected red blood cells. Pharmacological inhibition 
of Asm with the functional inhibitor amitriptyline in Plasmodium yoelii (Py)- 
and Plasmodium berghei ANKA (PbA)-infected mice significantly reduces 
parasitemia and mitigates disease-associated pathology. Amitriptyline treatment 
also reduces T cell activation, preserving blood-brain barrier integrity upon 
PbA infection. Remarkably, we observe inhibition of Plasmodium falciparum growth 
in vitro upon exposure to amitriptyline. Mechanistically, we elucidate that 
amitriptyline impedes intra-erythrocytic parasite development, due to a reduced 
glucose uptake and thereby interfering with the spreading of blood-stage 
Plasmodium parasites. Our findings highlight the therapeutic promise of 
targeting sphingolipid metabolism to combat Plasmodium infections.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118331
PMID: 40633203

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


85. PLOS Glob Public Health. 2025 Jul 9;5(7):e0004056. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pgph.0004056. eCollection 2025.

"I want to help my body": Acceptability of malaria chemoprevention among 
children with sickle cell anaemia and their caregivers in Malawi and Uganda.

Svege S(1), Lange S(2), Robberstad B(1), Rujumba J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway.
(2)Department of Health Promotion and Development, University of Bergen, Bergen, 
Norway.
(3)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, School of Medicine, Makerere 
University, Kampala, Uganda.

Patients with sickle cell anaemia (SCA) are at risk of severe illness and death 
if infected by malaria, and lifelong prophylaxis is recommended to individuals 
in malaria endemic regions. Although its efficacy is declining due to parasite 
resistance, the antimalarial drug Sulphadoxine-Pyrimethamine (SP) is still given 
to patients with SCA in several countries of sub-Saharan Africa. A clinical 
trial was performed to compare SP with Dihydroartemisinin-Piperaquine (DP) for 
malaria chemoprevention in children with SCA in Uganda and Malawi. This paper 
describes a study on acceptability which was nested within the trial. To explore 
views on malaria chemoprevention and the proposed treatment regimens, 29 focus 
group discussions were conducted with children above 10 years of age with SCA 
and caregivers of children with SCA. The discussions were transcribed and 
translated to English before coding and reflexive thematic analysis. 
Participants from the DP arm reported a reduced number of sick events and 
hospital admissions while they were in the trial, and ranked DP above SP in 
terms of perceived effectiveness. Although concerns were raised about initial 
side effects, a high pill burden, and the unpleasant smell and taste of tablets, 
most participants were willing to continue long-term administration of DP due to 
its observed or experienced health benefits. Despite positive attitudes towards 
the use of weekly DP, monthly dosing was frequently suggested as a better option 
as it would lower the pill burden and expand the time interval between treatment 
courses. To mitigate transport costs and time spent away from school and work, 
most participants preferred a period of two months or longer between drug refill 
visits at the hospital. During routine care visits, counselling about the 
importance of accurate dosing and ongoing adherence should be provided to ensure 
sustainable and successful use of malaria chemoprevention among children with 
SCA.

Copyright: © 2025 Svege et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgph.0004056
PMCID: PMC12240377
PMID: 40632789

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


86. J Microsc. 2025 Jul 9. doi: 10.1111/jmi.70007. Online ahead of print.

Optimisation of freeze substitution protocols for the examination of malaria 
parasite structure by volumetric electron microscopy.

Rachid R(1)(2), Wendt C(1)(2)(3), de Souza W(1)(2)(4), Miranda K(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Ultraestrutura Celular Hertha Meyer, Centro de Pesquisa em 
Medicina de Precisão, Instituto de Biofísica Carlos Chagas Filho and Centro 
Nacional de Biologia Estrutural e Bioimagem, Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Instituto Nacional de Ciência e Tecnologia em Biologia Estrutural e 
Bioimagem, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Biomineralização, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, 
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Centro Multiusuário para Análise de Fenômenos Biomédicos, Universidade do 
Estado do Amazonas, Amazonas, Brazil.

Malaria is one of the deadliest infectious diseases in the world, annually 
responsible for over 400,000 deaths. It is caused by parasites of the genus 
Plasmodium, which undergo remarkable structural changes during their development 
within different cells across various hosts. An important approach to understand 
the structural basis of biochemical and physiological processes during 
Plasmodium infection has been the quantitative measurement of dimensional 
parameters obtained by different microscopy techniques. In this regard, sample 
preparation, particularly electron microscopy protocols that rely on 
room-temperature chemical fixation, has posed significant challenges, as it is 
known to produce artefacts such as shrinking, swelling and displacement of 
structures and osmolytes. In contrast, specimen immobilisation by cryofixation 
followed by freeze substitution minimises these artefacts and provides better 
sample preservation. Nevertheless, the composition of the freeze substitution 
medium may vary depending on the cell type, making it a critical factor for 
achieving optimal sample preparation. In this work, we optimised a freeze 
substitution protocol for the structural analysis of intraerythrocytic stages of 
the murine malaria models Plasmodium chabaudi and P. berghei. We tested 
different freeze substitution recipes, considering the biochemical composition 
of malaria membranes, and compared the results with those obtained through 
conventional chemical fixation. Overall, the results showed a significant 
improvement on the preservation of cell morphology and haemozoin crystals. 
Establishing an efficient and reproducible freeze substitution protocol for 
murine malaria models provides an important tool for advancing our understanding 
of the structural organisation of Plasmodium spp.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Microscopy published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
on behalf of Royal Microscopical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jmi.70007
PMID: 40631666


87. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2025 Jul 9:traf070. doi: 10.1093/trstmh/traf070. 
Online ahead of print.

Remoscope: a label-free imaging cytometer for malaria diagnostics.

Lebel PM(1), Jeyakumar I(1), Khoo MWL(1), Emorut J(2), Charlton C(1), Saxena 
A(1), Jacobsen A(1), Huynh E(1), Wu W(1), Courville G(1), Fu PC(1), Raghavan 
M(3), Puccinelli R(4), Olwoch P(2), Dorsey G(5), Rosenthal PJ(5), DeRisi 
J(1)(3), Gomez-Sjoberg R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Chan Zuckerberg Biohub San Francisco, 499 
Illinois Street, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Infectious Disease Research Collaboration, 
2C Nakasero Hill Road, 10106, Uganda.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San 
Francisco, 600 16th street, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA.
(4)Department of Bioengineering, University of California , Berkeley, Stanley 
Hall University Drive, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA 94158, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Nov 13:2024.11.12.24317184. doi: 10.1101/2024.11.12.24317184.

BACKGROUND: Malaria diagnostic testing remains a burden on healthcare systems. 
Here we present Remoscope, a portable imaging cytometer that scans fresh, 
unstained whole blood using a custom neural network running on low-cost 
hardware. Remoscope performs label-free, quantitative, stage-specific detection 
of Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) by screening up to 2 million red blood cells 
(RBCs) in 1-12 min, without sample fixation, staining or slide scanning. 
Low-cost disposable cartridges are used to confine flowing blood to an ultrathin 
sheet for imaging.
METHODS: Performance was benchmarked in vitro by titration of cultured Pf 
(17.1-710 000 parasites/µl) into whole blood. A study of Remoscope's diagnostic 
accuracy was evaluated in a cohort of 500 individuals in eastern Uganda, 
comprising 601 unique clinic visits. Parallel measurements of parasitaemia were 
performed using Remoscope, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and 
thick blood smears.
RESULTS: Clinically, Remoscope's 10× diluted blood assay had a limit of 
detection with respect to qPCR of 95.1 parasites/µl, sensitivity of 83%, 
specificity of 96%, positive predictive value of 91% and negative predictive 
value of 93%.
CONCLUSIONS: Remoscope's speed, accuracy, cost and ease of use address key 
challenges in malaria diagnosis worldwide. In this pilot study, the diagnostic 
accuracy approaches that of expert thick smears performed in duplication.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Royal 
Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. All rights reserved. For commercial 
re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/trstmh/traf070
PMID: 40631413


88. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 1:2025.06.29.662177. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.29.662177.

Machine learning enables de novo multi-epitope design of plasmodium falciparum 
circumsporozoite protein to target trimeric L9 antibody.

Nelson JAD, Garfinkle SE, Lin ZJ, Park J, Kim AJ, Bayruns K, McCanna ME, Konrath 
KM, Agostino CJ, Kulp DW, John ARO, Pallesen J.

Currently approved vaccines for the prevention of malaria provide only partial 
protection against disease, due to high variability in the quality of induced 
antibodies. These vaccines present the unstructured central repeat region, as 
well as the C-terminal domain, of the circumsporozoite protein ( Pf CSP) of the 
malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum (1). A recently discovered protective 
monoclonal antibody, L9, recognizes three structured copies of the Pf CSP minor 
repeat. Similarly to other highly potent anti-malarial antibodies, L9 relies on 
critical homotypic interactions between antibodies for its high protective 
efficacy (2, 3). Here, we report the design of immunogens scaffolding one copy 
of Pf CSP's minor repeat capable of binding L9. To design immunogens capable of 
presenting multiple, structure-based epitopes in one scaffold, we developed a 
machine-learning-driven structural immunogen design pipeline, MESODID, tailored 
to focus on multi-epitope vaccine targets. We use this pipeline to design 
multiple scaffolds that present three copies of the Pf CSP minor repeat. A 3.6 Å 
cryo-EM structure of our top design, minor repeat targeting immunogen (M-TIM), 
demonstrates that M-TIM successfully orients three copies of L9, effectively 
recapitulating its critical homotypic interactions. The wide prevalence of 
repeated epitopes in key vaccine targets, such as HIV-1 Envelope, SARS-CoV-2 
spike, and Influenza Hemagglutinin, suggests that MESODID will have broad 
utility in creating immunogens that incorporate such epitopes, offering a new 
powerful approach to developing vaccines against a range of challenging 
infections, including malaria.
SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: In this study, we present a machine learning driven, 
structure-guided protein design pipeline built specifically for the design of 
multi-epitope vaccine immunogens. We employ the pipeline here to design and 
solve the cryo-EM structure of a de novo immunogen that binds and properly 
orients three copies of the anti-malarial monoclonal antibody L9, producing a 
promising next-generation malaria vaccine immunogen. This design pipeline could 
be employed to design any number of structurally constrained multi-epitope 
immunogens, as well as other proteins designed to bind multiple targets.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.29.662177
PMCID: PMC12236743
PMID: 40631167


89. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 3:2025.07.02.25330769. doi: 
10.1101/2025.07.02.25330769.

Impact of intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in pregnancy with 
sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine on sexually transmitted and reproductive tract 
infections: results from a randomised trial in Uganda.

Adrama H, Dela Cruz EJ, Ozarslan N, Kakuru A, Odongo B, Gaw SL, Benjamin-Chung 
J, Kizza J, Aguti M, Ategeka J, Olwoch P, Nakalembe M, Opira B, Clark TD, Kamya 
MR, Rosenthal PJ, Dorsey G, Roh ME.

BACKGROUND: In sub-Saharan Africa, sexually transmitted and reproductive tract 
infections (STIs/RTIs) are important, but underdiagnosed risk factors for 
adverse pregnancy outcomes. Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP), used for 
intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in pregnancy (IPTp), may reduce 
STI/RTI burden due to its antibacterial activity. We assessed the impact of IPTp 
regimens on STI/RTI prevalence at delivery and associations between these 
infections and adverse birth outcomes.
METHODS: We conducted a secondary analysis of a randomized controlled trial 
comparing monthly IPTp with SP, dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP), or DP+SP 
among pregnant women in Uganda. Vaginal swabs collected at or near delivery were 
tested for Chlamydia trachomatis , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Trichomonas vaginalis 
, and Group B Streptococcus (GBS) using GeneXpert; bacterial vaginosis was 
assessed using Nugent scoring. Log-binomial regression was used to compare 
STI/RTI prevalence by IPTp arm, using IPTp-DP as the reference arm. 
Multivariable Poisson regression with robust standard errors was used to 
evaluate associations between infections and preterm delivery, term low 
birthweight (LBW), overall LBW, and small-for-gestational age.
RESULTS: Among the 2265 participants assessed, IPTp-SP reduced prevalence of C. 
trachomatis by 80% (2.5% vs. 12.4%; RR=0.20, 95% CI: 0.12-0.33) and of GBS by 
35% (7.7% vs 11.7%; RR=0.65, 95% CI: 0.43-0.99) compared to IPTp-DP. C. 
trachomatis was associated with increased preterm delivery risk (RR=1.86, 95% 
CI: 1.07-3.25) and GBS was associated with increased term LBW risk (RR=2.08, 95% 
CI: 1.06-4.08).
CONCLUSIONS: Monthly IPTp-SP reduced the prevalence of C. trachomatis and GBS. 
These infections were associated with adverse birth outcomes, highlighting the 
potential non-malarial benefits of IPTp-SP.
KEY MESSAGES: In sub-Saharan Africa, management of sexually transmitted and 
reproductive tract infections (STIs/RTIs) relies on syndromic management, 
despite its high prevalence and potential risks associated with asymptomatic 
infections.Prior studies suggest that sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP), the 
standard-of-care drug used for intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in 
pregnancy (IPTp), may exhibit activity certain STI/RTI pathogens, likely 
stemming from the sulfonamide component of the drug. Using data from a 
randomized trial comparing monthly IPTp regimens, we found IPTp-SP was 
associated with an 80% [95% CI: 67%-88%] reduction in Chlamydia trachomatis 
(2.5% versus 12.4%) and a 35% [95% CI: 1%-57%] reduction in Group B 
Streptococcus (7.7% vs. 11.7%) compared to IPTp-DP, an antimalarial with no 
known antibiotic activity. C. trachomatis was associated with an increased risk 
of preterm delivery (RR=1.86 [95% CI: 1.07-3.25]); Group B Streptococcus 
colonization was associated with an increased risk of term low birthweight 
(RR=2.08 [95% CI: 1.06-4.08]). IPTp-SP appears to offer benefits independent of 
malaria prevention through its effects on certain STI/RTIs pathogens, 
potentially contributing to a decrease in adverse birth outcomes. These findings 
are relevant as replacements to SP for IPTp are being considered.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.07.02.25330769
PMCID: PMC12236864
PMID: 40630588


90. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 2:rs.3.rs-7004070. doi:
10.21203/rs.3.rs-7004070/v1.

hmmibd-rs: An enhanced hmmIBD implementation for parallelizable 
identity-by-descent detection from large-scale Plasmodium genomic data.

Guo B, Schaffner SF, Taylor AR, O'Connor TD, Takala-Harrison S.

Background Identity-by-descent (IBD), which describes recent genetic co-ancestry 
between pairs of genomes, is a fundamental concept in population genomics. It 
has been used to estimate genetic relatedness, detect selection signals, and 
understand population demography. The IBD detection method hmmIBD demonstrates 
high accuracy in inferring IBD segments between haploid genomes, including 
Plasmodium falciparum , and is widely used in malaria genomic surveillance. 
However, the current single-threaded implementation of hmmIBD does not utilize 
the full capacity of multi-processor computers, making it difficult to apply to 
large data sets, and does not accommodate non-uniform recombination rates across 
the genome. Methods We developed an enhanced implementation of hmmIBD in the 
Rust programming language, named hmmibd-rs , which leverages multi-threaded 
computing to parallelize IBD inference over genome pairs and which supports 
optional, user-defined recombination rate maps for more accurate IBD detection 
and filtration from genomes with non-uniform recombination. We further 
streamlined large-scale IBD detection by incorporating auxiliary built-in 
functionalities to preprocess input directly from the standard binary variant 
call format (BCF) and filter IBD output to reduce disk usage. Results Our new 
implementation significantly reduces IBD detection computation time nearly 
linearly with the increased number of CPU threads used; using 128 threads 
shortens IBD detection time from 5.2 days to 1.3 hours for 220 million pairs of 
simulated Plasmodium falciparum -like chromosomes, increasing computational 
speed by approximately 100x over the single-threaded hmmIBD algorithm. 
Incorporating non-uniform recombination rates in hmmibd-rs enhances the accuracy 
of IBD inference by mitigating the overestimation of IBD breakpoints in 
recombination cold spots and their underestimation in hot spots. It also 
improves IBD segment length filtration, reducing the false positive rate in 
recombination cold spots and the false negative rate in hot spots. When applied 
to empirical data sets, hmmibd-rs completes the detection of IBD from MalariaGEN 
Pf7 (n ≈ 10,000 monoclonal samples) within hours, enabling a single-day IBD 
analysis pipeline for large genomic data sets. Conclusion hmmibd-rs builds upon, 
accelerates, and enhances hmmIBD for efficient and accurate IBD detection, 
serving as a crucial tool for advancing large-scale malaria genomic 
surveillance.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-7004070/v1
PMCID: PMC12236896
PMID: 40630530


91. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 2:rs.3.rs-6771360. doi:
10.21203/rs.3.rs-6771360/v1.

High connectivity and low differentiation of Plasmodium falciparum parasite 
populations in a setting with high seasonal migration.

Esayas E, Louie W, Routledge I, Murphy M, Demeke NN, De Amaral F, Aranda-Díaz A, 
Greenhouse B, Kassa FA, Nigusse T, Assefa M, Ashine T, Getachew A, Ntuku H, 
Golassa L, Gadisa E, Bennett A, Smith JL.

Seasonal movement of less-immune people from low- to high- transmission regions 
increases malaria risk and may introduce parasite strains to both areas. This 
study examined Plasmodium falciparum genetic diversity and connectivity between 
low-transmission highlands and endemic lowlands in Ethiopia to assess the 
contribution of seasonal agricultural migration in sustaining transmission. P. 
falciparum qPCR-positive dried blood spots collected from highland health 
facilities and lowland agricultural worksites were sequenced using multiplexed 
amplicon sequencing. Complexity of infection (COI) and infection pairwise 
relatedness were estimated and used for clustering analysis. Lowland populations 
(seasonal workers and local residents) had higher COI and polyclonal infection 
rates (mean COI 2.62, 60%, n=581) than highland residents (mean COI 2.00, 42%, 
n=599). Similar expected heterozygosity (He ≈0.4) was observed, and P. 
falciparum infections from worksites showed high genetic connectivity between 
highland and lowland populations, with extensive parasite sharing, including 27 
identical clusters in highland cases and 12 in seasonal workers. Integrating 
parasite genomic data with epidemiological information revealed strong 
connectivity and low genetic differentiation between these regions linked by 
seasonal migration. These findings highlight how agricultural mobility likely 
drives parasite diversity and gene flow, implicating its role in sustaining 
malaria transmission.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6771360/v1
PMCID: PMC12236906
PMID: 40630523


92. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 1:rs.3.rs-6865029. doi:
10.21203/rs.3.rs-6865029/v1.

Challenging the notion of Aedes aegypti as the primary chikungunya virus vector: 
insights from Kédougou, Southeastern Senegal.

Gaye A, Diagne MM, Diallo D, Ndiaye EH, Ndione MHD, Gaye M, Dieng I, Dieng M, 
Kane M, Sankhe S, Diouf B, Sy FA, Weldon C, Dia I, Weaver SC, Diallo M.

Background Chikungunya fever (CHIK) caused by the mosquito-borne chikungunya 
virus (CHIKV) and transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes, remains a public health 
burden throughout the tropics. During the CHIK outbreak in the southeastern 
Senegal in August 2023, an entomologic investigation was conducted to identify 
the vector(s) and characterize the virus strains. Methods Adult mosquitoes were 
collected indoors and outdoors from houses of confirmed CHIK cases and their 
immediate neighborhoods using Prokopack aspirators and double-net traps and all 
water containers were inspected for aquatic stages. Mosquito pools were tested 
for CHIKV by RT-qPCR and positive samples were subjected to whole genome 
sequencing using Illumina iSeq system. Results Animal watering points; bricks 
and tree holes were the most common sites for Aedes aegypti larvae and pupae. 
While immature Ae. aegypti were found in all affected villages, with Breteau and 
Container indices exceeded the WHO epidemic thresholds, Ae. furcifer emerged as 
the most abundant host-seeking species in domestic areas. CHIKV was detected in 
31 mosquito pools, primarily in Ae. furcifer (22 pools) and only one pool of Ae. 
aegypti . Other Aedes species accounted for 8 positive pools and Anopheles 
gambiae , the primary malaria vector, one pool. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed 
the close relationship between 2023 CHIKV strains circulating in humans and 
mosquitoes, and those responsible for the 2015 outbreak. Conclusions Our study 
highlights the urgent need to include sylvatic mosquitoes in surveillance and 
control programs that until now have mainly focused on Ae. aegypti . Moreover, 
the potential role of Anopheles gambiae in the CHIKV transmission in Senegal 
warrants further investigation.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6865029/v1
PMCID: PMC12236909
PMID: 40630522


93. Parasit Vectors. 2025 Jul 8;18(1):269. doi: 10.1186/s13071-025-06836-6.

Toxicity of ivermectin to bed bugs (Cimex hemipterus) and risk factors 
associated with infestation in Kwale County, coastal Kenya.

Odongo T(1), Omondi I(2), Wanjiku C(2), Okoko M(2), Kiuru C(3), Kariuki M(1), 
Ringera I(2), Otieno B(1), Mure F(2), Furnival-Adams J(3)(4), Gutierrez AS(3), 
Otuko R(2)(5), Rabinovich NR(3)(6), Mwangangi J(1)(2), Chaccour C(3)(7), Maia 
MF(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)KEMRI: Kenya Medical Research Institute, Nairobi, Kenya.
(2)KEMRI-Wellcome Trust Research Programme: Centre for Geographic Medicine 
Research Coast, Kilifi, Kenya.
(3)ISGlobal, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Facultat de Medicina I Ciències de La Salut, Universitat de Barcelona (UB), 
Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Nuffield Department of Medicine, Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global 
Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(6)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Navarra Center for International Development, Universidad de Navarra, 
Pamplona, Spain.
(8)KEMRI-Wellcome Trust Research Programme: Centre for Geographic Medicine 
Research Coast, Kilifi, Kenya. mmaia@kemri-wellcome.org.
(9)Nuffield Department of Medicine, Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global 
Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. mmaia@kemri-wellcome.org.

BACKGROUND: Bed bugs (Cimex spp.) are obligate ectoparasites that have long been 
associated with human dwellings, causing discomfort and psychosocial distress. 
Conventional control strategies relying on insecticides are increasingly 
challenged by resistance, necessitating alternative interventions. Ivermectin, 
an endectocide known to impact various neglected tropical diseases and 
hematophagous arthropods, is currently being assessed for malaria vector 
control. This study aimed to evaluate the toxicity of ivermectin on Cimex 
hemipterus, the predominant bed bug species in Africa, within the framework of 
the Broad One Health Endectocide-based Malaria Intervention in Africa (BOHEMIA) 
project in Kwale, Kenya.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey was conducted in 352 households to obtain 
information on self-reported bed bug infestations, socioeconomic status, and 
household characteristics. Bed bugs were collected from 40 infested households. 
After collection, bed bugs were acclimatized and exposed to blood meals spiked 
with ivermectin at five concentrations (85 ng/ml, 64 ng/ml, 43 ng/ml, 21 ng/ml, 
and 11 ng/ml), corresponding to expected serum levels 4 h to 6-7 days following 
a 400 µg/kg oral dose. Mortality and fecundity were monitored over a 14-day 
period. Statistical analyses, including Cox proportional hazard models and 
probit regression, were applied to assess dose-response relationships.
RESULTS: Bed bug infestation was common, with 75% of participating households 
reporting their presence, with infestations being strongly associated with the 
number of people residing in a household. Ivermectin exposure resulted in 
significant dose-dependent mortality in Cimex hemipterus, with the higher 
concentrations (43, 64, and 85 ng/ml) inducing over 90% mortality within 3 days 
postfeeding. Bed bugs that ingested blood meals containing sublethal doses of 
ivermectin did not lay eggs. Kaplan-Meier survival analyses demonstrated a clear 
inverse relationship between ivermectin concentration and bed bug survival.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide evidence that ivermectin, administered as 
part of a mass drug administration campaign, could contribute to bed bug control 
alongside its intended impact on other diseases or vectors. The results 
underscore the potential for integrated public health approaches leveraging 
endectocide interventions. Further field evaluations in diverse locations are 
needed to determine the optimal number of administrations and treatment 
intervals required for complete infestation elimination.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-025-06836-6
PMCID: PMC12239333
PMID: 40629452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was part of a broader investigation assessing 
ivermectin’s mass drug administration for malaria control. The research protocol 
was reviewed and approved by the Scientific Ethics Review Unit—KEMRI (SERU 
4616), Research Ethics Committee of the World Health Organization (WHO-ERC) (ERC 
0003574), and the Research Ethics committee of the University of Oxford (Oxford 
Tropical Research Ethics Committee) (OxTREC 18–23). Written informed consent was 
obtained from all participating households. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


94. Malar J. 2025 Jul 8;24(1):220. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05474-8.

Variations in haematological and inflammatory biomarkers and their association 
with Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a cross-sectional comparative study at a 
clinic in Ghana.

Bohli JK(1)(2), Ansah PB(1)(2), Kwamena TE(1), Allotey E(1), Duneeh RV(1), 
Yeboah EB(3), Addo L(4), Kyeremeh R(5), Kwadzokpui PK(6)(2), Ablordey K(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, School of Allied Health Sciences, 
University of Health and Allied Sciences, Ho, Ghana.
(2)Medical Laboratory Department, Ho Teaching Hospital, Ho, Ghana.
(3)Department of Basic Sciences, School of Basic and Biomedical Sciences, 
University of Health and Allied Sciences, Ho, Ghana.
(4)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, Faculty of Applied Sciences, Accra 
Technical University, Accra, Ghana.
(5)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, School of Biomedical and Allied 
Health Science, University of Ghana, Accra, Ghana.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Disease Control, School of Public Health, 
University of Ghana, Accra, Ghana.
(7)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, School of Allied Health Sciences, 
University of Health and Allied Sciences, Ho, Ghana. kennethablordey5@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Malaria remains a significant public health challenge in Ghana, with 
haematological alterations being a common feature of infection. Understanding 
these changes is crucial for improving disease management, particularly in 
endemic regions where resource limitations may affect diagnostic capabilities. 
This study aimed to evaluate variations in haematological and inflammatory 
biomarkers and their association with Plasmodium falciparum malaria in a 
Ghanaian setting.
METHODS: A cross-sectional comparative study was conducted at the Ghana Ports 
and Harbours Authority Clinic from January to May 2018, involving 200 
participants (100 P. falciparum-infected and 100 malaria-negative participants). 
Full blood count parameters and derived inflammatory indices were analysed. 
Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U tests were used to determine the variations in 
haematological and inflammatory biomarkers across malaria and non-malaria 
groups. Logistic regression was also used to find the haematological and 
inflammatory biomarkers associated with malaria. A p-value less than 0.05 was 
considered statistically significant.
RESULTS: Significant differences were observed in several haematological 
parameters between P. falciparum malaria and non-malaria groups. Plasmodium 
falciparum malaria patients showed markedly lower white blood cell counts (4.88 
vs. 5.84 × 10⁹/L, p < 0.001), lymphocyte counts (0.91 vs. 2.10 × 10⁹/L, 
p < 0.001), and platelet counts (117.50 vs. 224.50 × 10⁹/L, p < 0.001). 
Inflammatory indices revealed elevated neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (3.49 vs. 
1.43, p < 0.001) and systemic inflammatory response index (1.83 vs. 0.73, 
p < 0.001) in P. falciparum malaria patients. Notably, the platelet-monocyte 
ratio was significantly reduced in malaria patients (207.45 vs. 457.78, 
p < 0.001). Haemoglobin levels showed significant variation across parasite 
densities, particularly between moderate and low parasitaemia groups 
(p = 0.026). The logistic regression also revealed that the odds of malaria 
decreased with increasing haematocrit (aOR: 0.77,95% CI 0.60-0.97, p = 0.032), 
platelets (aOR:0.96, 95% CI 0.94-0.99, p = 0.013) and platelets-monocyte ratio 
(aOR:0.98, 95% CI 0.97-0.99, p = 0.004), and increased with increased 
platelets-lymphocyte ratio (aOR:1.04, 95% CI 1.00-1.07, p = 0.031).
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated significant alterations in haematological 
and inflammatory biomarkers during P. falciparum malaria infection. These 
findings reveal the importance of haematological parameters in malaria diagnosis 
and severity assessment, with potential implications for improving early 
detection, risk stratification, and clinical management of P. falciparum malaria 
patients.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05474-8
PMCID: PMC12235773
PMID: 40629396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


95. Malar J. 2025 Jul 8;24(1):221. doi: 10.1186/s12936-025-05472-w.

Hidden reservoirs of infection: prevalence and risk factors of asymptomatic 
malaria in a high-endemic region of Zambia.

Silwamba W(1), Chisompola D(2), Nzobokela J(3), Chakulya M(4), Kabwe L(1), Tembo 
K(5).

Author information:
(1)Pathology Laboratory Department, Mwandi Mission Hospital, Mwandi, Zambia.
(2)Pathology Laboratory Department, Arthur Davison Children's Hospital, Ndola, 
Zambia. d.chisompola@gmail.com.
(3)Pathology Laboratory Department, Ndola Teaching Hospital, Ndola, Zambia.
(4)Pathology and Microbiology Department, Mulungushi University School of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Livingstone, Zambia.
(5)Healit Research International and Trace Research & Innovation, Untold Global 
Healit Zambia, Lusaka, Zambia.

BACKGROUND: Malaria remains a significant global health challenge, particularly 
in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), where asymptomatic cases contribute to ongoing 
transmission and hinder elimination efforts. Asymptomatic individuals act as 
hidden reservoirs, sustaining onward malaria transmission. This study aimed to 
determine the prevalence and risk factors of asymptomatic malaria in Mwandi 
District, Zambia.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted between January to May 2024 in 
Mwandi District. Blood samples were collected for malaria diagnosis and 
simultaneously tested using rapid diagnostic tests and Giemsa-stained blood 
smear microscopy techniques to detect Plasmodium infections. Structured 
questionnaires were administered to gather demographic data and information on 
potential risk factors. Descriptive statistics were used to summarize the data 
while categorical variables were compared using the chi-square test or Fisher's 
exact test. Logistic regression was used to assess associations between outcomes 
and independent variables, with statistical significance set at p < 0.05.
RESULTS: A total of 370 participants were enrolled in the study, with females 
comprising the majority (52.4%) and a median age of 24 years (IQR: 9-30). The 
overall prevalence of asymptomatic malaria was (4.1%), as determined by 
microscopy. Logistic regression analysis showed that females had significantly 
lower odds of asymptomatic malaria compared to males (AOR: 0.20, 95% CI 
0.05-0.68; p = 0.010). Additionally, participants residing in Matoya and Sikute 
were more likely to have asymptomatic malaria, with adjusted odds ratios of 4.56 
(95% CI 1.10-18.80; p = 0.036) and 4.72 (95% CI 1.03-21.50; p = 0.045), 
respectively. No significant associations were found with insecticide-treated 
net use, indoor residual spraying, or socioeconomic status.
CONCLUSION: The findings highlight the need for targeted surveillance and 
interventions in high-risk groups and locations to curb silent transmission. 
Despite limitations in diagnostic sensitivity, the study underscores the 
importance of integrating asymptomatic malaria screening into control programmes 
to advance elimination efforts in Zambia and similar endemic regions.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-025-05472-w
PMCID: PMC12239312
PMID: 40629364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Ethical approval for this study was granted by the Mulungushi 
University School of Medicine and Health Sciences Research Committee Board (IRB: 
00012281, FWA: 0002888; Reference No. SMHS-MU2-2024–208). Written informed 
consent and assent were obtained from all participants after explaining the 
study procedures. Participants were informed of the minimal risks involved, 
primarily slight pain or irritation from the needle prick during specimen 
collection. Participants who tested positive for asymptomatic infection by rapid 
diagnostic test were treated in accordance with the national malaria treatment 
guidelines, provided they had no history of antimalarial treatment in the past 
14 days. To maintain confidentiality, all patient information was anonymized, 
and data were encrypted within the collection and analysis tools. Access to the 
data was strictly limited to the study authors through password-protected 
systems, minimizing the risk of unauthorized access or disclosure. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


96. Cell Chem Biol. 2025 Jul 2:S2451-9456(25)00198-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.chembiol.2025.06.003. Online ahead of print.

Plasmodiumfalciparum protein kinase 6 and hemozoin formation are inhibited by a 
type II human kinase inhibitor exhibiting antimalarial activity.

Nardella F(1), Jiang T(2), Wang L(3), Bohmer MJ(1), Chakraborty S(1), Okombo 
J(4), Calla J(2), Silva TM(5), Pazicky S(6), Che J(7), Jeon J(4), Vincent E(1), 
Boonyalai N(8), Coyle R(8), Buchanan MJ(8), Schaefer S(2), Chen D(2), Khan A(2), 
Mayville E(4), De Souza ML(2), Treat M(9), Charlton J(10), Tumwebaze PK(11), 
Tjia S(6), Montejo L(1), Cover K(1), Rosenthal PJ(12), Cooper RA(10), Bozdech 
Z(6), Lee MCS(8), Chakrabarti R(1), Desai SA(5), Fidock DA(4), Wang J(7), Gray 
NS(13), Winzeler EA(14), Chakrabarti D(15).

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Microbiology, Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences, 
University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL 32826, USA.
(2)School of Medicine and Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
University California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.
(3)Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, ChEM-H, Stanford Cancer 
Institute, School of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY 10032, USA; Center for Malaria Therapeutics and 
Antimicrobial Resistance, Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of 
Medicine, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(5)Laboratory of Malaria and Vector Research, National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Rockville, MD, USA.
(6)School of Biological Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, 60 Nanyang 
Drive, Singapore 637551, Singapore.
(7)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02215, 
USA; Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(8)Biological Chemistry and Drug Discovery, Wellcome Centre for Anti-Infectives 
Research, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK.
(9)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley CA 94704, USA.
(10)Department of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, Dominican University of 
California, San Rafael, CA 94901, USA.
(11)Infectious Disease Research Collaboration, Kampala, Uganda.
(12)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94110, 
USA.
(13)Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, ChEM-H, Stanford Cancer 
Institute, School of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. 
Electronic address: nsgray01@stanford.edu.
(14)School of Medicine and Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. Electronic 
address: ewinzeler@health.ucsd.edu.
(15)Division of Molecular Microbiology, Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences, 
University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL 32826, USA. Electronic address: 
dchak@ucf.edu.

Kinase inhibitors are potent therapeutics, but most essential Plasmodium kinases 
remain unexploited as antimalarial targets. We identified compound 12, a type II 
kinase inhibitor based on aminopyridine and 2,6-benzimidazole scaffolds, as a 
lead compound with nanomolar potency, fast action, and in vivo activity in the 
Plasmodium berghei rodent malaria model. Three-hybrid luciferase fragment 
complementation, enzymatic studies, and cellular thermal shift assays implicated 
Plasmodium protein kinase 6 (PfPK6) as the target. However, conditional 
knockdown of PfPK6 did not alter 12 potency, suggesting complex mechanisms of 
action. In vitro selection for compound 12 resistance revealed mutations in 
three transporters: multidrug-resistance protein 1, chloroquine resistance 
transporter and V-type ATPase, indicating a digestive vacuole site of action. 
Compound 12 inhibited β-hematin and hemozoin formation while increasing free 
heme levels, suggesting antimalarial activity via blockade of heme 
detoxification. Our studies repurpose a safe human kinase inhibitor as a potent, 
fast-acting antimalarial with established in vivo efficacy.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chembiol.2025.06.003
PMID: 40628257

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests Intellectual property 
disclosure for compound 12 (YLIU-06-026-1) has been filed under WO 2024/196989 
A1 dated 26 September 2024. N.G. is a founder, science advisory board member 
(SAB), and equity holder in Syros, C4, Allorion, Lighthorse, Voronoi, Inception, 
Matchpoint, CobroVentures, GSK, Larkspur (board member), Shenandoah (board 
member) and Soltego (board member). The Gray lab receives or has received 
research funding from Novartis, Takeda, Astellas, Taiho, Jansen, Kinogen, 
Arbella, Deerfield, Springworks, Interline and Sanofi. J.W. is a consultant and 
equity holder for Soltego. J.C. is a cofounder of Matchpoint therapeutics and 
consultant for Soltego, Allorion and Matchpoint Therapeutics, and holds equity 
in Soltego, Allorion, Matchpoint and M3 Bioinformatics & Technology Inc. N.G. is 
a member of the Cell Chemical Biology advisory board.


97. Virology. 2025 Jun 30;610:110621. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2025.110621. Online
ahead  of print.

Diversity and distribution of viral zoonosis in Africa.

Ahmed A(1), Mohamed NS(2), Siddig EE(3).

Author information:
(1)Pan-Africa One Health Institute (PAOHI), Kigali 11KG St 203, Rwanda; 
Institute of Endemic Diseases, University of Khartoum, Khartoum, Sudan; Swiss 
Tropical and Public Health Institute (Swiss TPH), Allschwil, Switzerland; 
University of Basel, Petersplatz 1, Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
ayman.ame.ahmed@gmail.com.
(2)Pan-Africa One Health Institute (PAOHI), Kigali 11KG St 203, Rwanda.
(3)Pan-Africa One Health Institute (PAOHI), Kigali 11KG St 203, Rwanda; Unit of 
Applied Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences, University of 
Khartoum, 11111, Khartoum, Sudan.

Viral zoonoses pose a significant public health challenge in Africa, 
characterized by a diverse array of pathogens transmitted from animals to 
humans. This review maps the geographic distribution of zoonotic viral diseases 
in Africa, including rodent-borne, bat-borne, tick-borne, mosquito-borne, and 
sandfly-associated viral zoonoses, along with those transmitted via fecal-oral 
and respiratory routes. This review informs surveillance, resource allocation, 
and One Health strategies by mapping zoonotic viral disease risks across Africa 
based on geographic existence. The overlapping clinical symptoms of these 
infections, particularly fever and headache, with endemic parasitic diseases, 
such as malaria and/or other intestinal parasitic infections, complicate 
accurate diagnosis, timely treatment, and case management, and further 
contributing to increased morbidity and mortality. The limited diagnostic 
capabilities and resource constraints of healthcare systems hinder effective 
surveillance and outbreak response, exacerbating the risks associated with 
zoonotic diseases. The economic burden of viral infections poses significant 
challenges for communities reliant on livestock. Therefore, identifying and 
mapping zoonotic viral diseases is critical to informing integrated strategies 
that address human, animal, and environmental health. A One Health approach, 
which recognizes the interconnectedness of these domains, is essential for 
managing the complex dynamics of zoonotic diseases transmission. strengthening 
surveillance systems, improving public health education, and strategically 
allocating resources are key to reducing the impact of viral zoonoses across 
Africa. Collaborative engagement among governments, non-governmental 
organizations, and international health agencies is crucial for building 
resilient health systems capable of responding effectively to both existing and 
emerging zoonotic threats.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2025.110621
PMID: 40628038

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


98. PLoS Pathog. 2025 Jul 8;21(7):e1013057. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1013057. 
eCollection 2025 Jul.

Natural product-mediated reaction hijacking mechanism validates Plasmodium 
aspartyl-tRNA synthetase as an antimalarial drug target.

Ketprasit N(1), Tai CW(1), Sharma VK(2), Manickam Y(2), Khandokar Y(3), Ye X(1), 
Dogovski C(1), Hilko DH(4)(5), Morton CJ(6), Braun AC(4)(5), Leeming MG(7), 
Siddharam B(8), Shami GJ(1), Pradeepkumar PI(8), Panjikar S(3)(9), Poulsen 
SA(4)(5), Griffin MDW(1), Sharma A(2), Tilley L(1), Xie SC(1)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Pharmacology, Bio21 Molecular Science and 
Biotechnology Institute, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Molecular Medicine - Structural Parasitology Group, International Centre for 
Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, New Delhi, India.
(3)Australian Synchrotron, ANSTO, Clayton, Australia.
(4)Institute for Biomedicine and Glycomics, Griffith University, Nathan, 
Australia.
(5)School of Environment and Science, Griffith University, Nathan, Australia.
(6)Biomedical Manufacturing Program, CSIRO, Clayton South, Australia.
(7)Melbourne Mass Spectrometry and Proteomics Facility, Bio21 Molecular Science 
and Biotechnology Institute, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(8)Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai, 
India.
(9)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Monash University, Clayton, 
Australia.
(10)Drug Delivery Disposition and Dynamics, Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Monash University, Parkville, Australia.

Malaria poses an enormous threat to human health. With ever-increasing 
resistance to currently deployed antimalarials, new targets and starting point 
compounds with novel mechanisms of action need to be identified. Here, we 
explore the antimalarial activity of the Streptomyces sp natural product, 
5'-O-sulfamoyl-2-chloroadenosine (dealanylascamycin, DACM) and compare it with 
the synthetic adenosine monophosphate (AMP) mimic, 5-O-sulfamoyladenosine (AMS). 
These nucleoside sulfamates exhibit potent inhibition of P. falciparum growth 
with an efficacy comparable to that of the current front-line antimalarial, 
dihydroartemisinin. Exposure of P. falciparum to DACM leads to inhibition of 
protein translation, driven by eIF2α phosphorylation. We show that DACM targets 
multiple aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRSs), including the cytoplasmic aspartyl 
tRNA synthetase (AspRS). The mechanism involves hijacking of the reaction 
product, leading to the formation of a tightly bound inhibitory amino 
acid-sulfamate conjugate. We show that recombinant P. falciparum and P. vivax 
AspRS are susceptible to hijacking by DACM and AMS, generating Asp-DACM and 
Asp-AMS adducts that stabilize these proteins. By contrast, human AspRS appears 
less susceptible to hijacking. X-ray crystallography reveals that apo P. vivax 
AspRS exhibits a stabilized flipping loop over the active site that is poised to 
bind substrates. By contrast, human AspRS exhibits disorder in an extended 
region around the flexible flipping loop as well as in a loop in motif II. These 
structural differences may underpin the decreased susceptibility of human AspRS 
to reaction-hijacking by DACM and AMS. Our work reveals Plasmodium AspRS as a 
promising antimalarial target and highlights structural features that underpin 
differences in the susceptibility of aaRSs to reaction hijacking inhibition.

Copyright: © 2025 Ketprasit et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1013057
PMCID: PMC12262901
PMID: 40627786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


99. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2025 Jul 8;19(7):e0013280. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0013280. eCollection 2025 Jul.

Prevalence of Leishmania infection in refugee camps: A serological and molecular 
study in Gambella and Benishangul-Gumuz, Ethiopia.

Belay H(1)(2), Abera A(1), Aklilu E(2), Abdisa B(3), Belachew M(1), Sime H(1), 
Pareyn M(4), Bishaw T(5), van Henten S(4), van Griensven J(4), Tasew G(1), Erko 
B(2).

Author information:
(1)Ethiopian Public Health Institute, Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases 
Research Directorate, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(2)Aklilu Lemma Health Research Institute, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.
(3)Public Health Emergency Management, Ethiopian Public Health Institute, Addis 
Ababa, Ethiopia.
(4)Unit of Neglected Tropical Diseases, Department of Clinical Sciences, 
Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, Belgium.
(5)Federal Ministry of Health, Disease Prevention and Control Directorate, Addis 
Ababa, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Leishmaniasis, transmitted by sandflies, causes a severe health 
threat in East African refugee camps. High mobility, poor conditions and limited 
healthcare access heighten the risk of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) among 
refugees. Though, data on infection prevalence is remains limited. This study 
aims to determine the prevalence of Leishmania infection in refugee camps in 
Benishangul Gumuz and Gambella regions to improve VL detection and guide 
effective control strategies in humanitarian settings.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted from May to August 2023 in four 
refugee camps to determine Leishmania infection using DAT and rtPCR on blood 
samples. Sociodemographic and clinical data were collected using structured 
questionnaires. Ethical approval was granted, and informed consent was obtained. 
Data were analyzed using SPSS v23, with associations assessed using logistic 
regression and Chi-square tests at a 0.05 significance level. Continuous 
variables summarized by median and interquartile range (IQR).
RESULT: The study included 1,223 participants (440 from Tsore camp and 220 from 
Sherkole in Benishangul Gumuz Region; 288 from Kule camp and 275 from Terkidi in 
Gambella Region), most of whom were from South Sudan (66.7%) and the majority 
were females (56.5%). 17.8% of the participants reported fever, with no spleen 
or liver enlargement and 0.2% lymph node swelling. Real-time PCR positivity was 
significantly higher in Tsore (14.6%, χ² = 21.4, p < 0.001), no significant 
difference in DAT positivity was observed across refugee camps (χ² = 6.6, 
p = 0.084). Leishmania DAT positivity rates were 6.0%, 4.6% and 4.7% in those 
with fever, chills and headache, respectively. Leishmania kDNA based rtPCR 
positivity rate were 11.7%, 8.8%, 7.3% and 6.2% in those with fever, chills, 
headache and weakness, respectively. Participants from Benishangul Gumuz region 
[AOR: 3.67 (95%CI: 1.57-8.59); p = 0.003]; South Sudanese [AOR: 2.87 (95%CI: 
1.26-6.50); p = 0.012 and those with fever [AOR: 2.08 (95%CI: 1.01-4.28); 
p = 0.047] had a higher odds of DAT positivity. On the other hand, lower rtPCR 
positivity rates were seen in the Sherkole refugee camp compared to Tsore camps 
in Benishangul Gumuz region [AOR: 0.19 (95%CI: 0.08-0.45); p < 0.0001].
CONCLUSION: Leishmania infection was prevalent in refugee camps in Gambella and 
Benishangul Gumuz regions. Asymptomatic cases and low parasite loads were 
common, highlighting the need for active case detection, intervention including 
treatment and vector control to manage VL transmission effectively.

Copyright: © 2025 Belay et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0013280
PMCID: PMC12262885
PMID: 40627779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


100. PLoS Pathog. 2025 Jul 8;21(7):e1013313. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1013313. 
eCollection 2025 Jul.

Essential role for PfHSP40 in asexual replication and thermotolerance of malaria 
parasites.

Roper B(1)(2), Kannan D(1), Mathews ES(3), Odom John AR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(2)Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri, United States of America.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Nov 05:2024.11.05.622024. doi: 10.1101/2024.11.05.622024.

Plasmodium falciparum, the parasite responsible for nearly all cases of severe 
malaria, must survive challenging environments to persist in its human host. 
Symptomatic malaria is characterized by periodic fevers corresponding to the 
48-hour asexual reproduction of P. falciparum in red blood cells. As a result, 
P. falciparum has evolved a diverse collection of heat shock proteins to 
mitigate the stresses induced by temperature shifts. Among the assortment of 
heat shock proteins in P. falciparum, there is only one predicted canonical 
cytosolic J-domain protein, PfHSP40 (PF3D7_1437900). Here, we generate a PfHSP40 
tunable knockdown strain of P. falciparum to investigate the biological function 
of PfHSP40 during the intraerythrocytic lifecycle. We determine that PfHSP40 is 
required for malaria parasite asexual replication and survival of febrile 
temperatures. Previous reports have connected proteotoxic and thermal stress 
responses in malaria parasites. However, we find PfHSP40 has a specific role in 
heat shock survival and is not essential for mitigating the proteotoxic stresses 
induced by artemisinin or proteosome inhibition. Following PfHSP40 knockdown, 
malaria parasites have a cell cycle progression defect and reduced nuclear 
replication. Untargeted proteomics reveal PfHSP40 depletion leads to a 
multifaceted downregulation of DNA replication and repair pathways. 
Additionally, we find PfHSP40 knockdown sensitizes parasites to DNA replication 
inhibition. Overall, these studies define the specialized role of the J-domain 
protein PfHSP40 in malaria parasites during the blood stages of infection.

Copyright: © 2025 Roper et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1013313
PMCID: PMC12258570
PMID: 40627776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.