1. Open Life Sci. 2025 Jul 7;20(1):20251101. doi: 10.1515/biol-2025-1101. 
eCollection 2025.

Immunoassay for pyruvate kinase M1/2 as an Alzheimer's biomarker in CSF.

de Geus MB(1), Kivisäkk P(1), Trombetta BA(1), Tijms BM(2), Visser PJ(2), Arnold 
SE(1), Carlyle BC(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital & Harvard Medical School, Department of 
Neurology, Boston, MA, United States of America.
(2)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Physiology, Anatomy & Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
United Kingdom.
(4)Kavli Institute for Nanoscience Discovery, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
United Kingdom.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-beta plaques and tau 
tangles in the brain, but these markers alone do not predict disease 
progression. The intersection of these pathologies with other processes 
including metabolic changes may contribute to disease progression. Brain glucose 
metabolism changes are among the earliest detectable events in AD. Pyruvate 
kinase (PKM) has been implicated as a potential biomarker to track these 
metabolic changes. We have developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA) to assess PKM levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). First, we verified 
the relationship of CSF PKM levels with cognitive decline, revealing a 
correlation between elevated CSF PKM levels and accelerated cognitive decline in 
preclinical AD patients in a tau-dependent manner. We developed the ELISA using 
two PKM-specific antibodies and validated it through quality control steps, 
indicating robust quantification of PKM. We showed that ELISA measurements of 
PKM correlate with mass spectrometry values in matching samples. When tested on 
an independent cohort, the assay confirmed elevation of PKM in AD. These 
findings support the use of PKM as a potential biomarker for tracking early 
metabolic changes in AD, offering a novel tool for investigating metabolic 
alterations and their intersection with other underlying pathologies in AD 
progression.

© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter.

DOI: 10.1515/biol-2025-1101
PMCID: PMC12260348
PMID: 40667488

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: B.C.C. has received 
sponsored research funding from Ono Pharmaceutical, and GSK. S.E.A. has served 
on the Scientific Advisory Board of Allyx Therapeutics, BioVie, Bob’s Last 
Marathon, Jocasta, Sage Therapeutics, and Merck. S.E.A. has acted as Consultant 
for EIP Pharma and Daewoong Pharmaceuticals. S.E.A. has received sponsored 
research funding from AbbVie, AC Immune, Amylyx, Athira Pharma, Chromadex, 
Cyclerion Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Janssen, Johnson & Johnson, Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, Seer Bioscience and vTv Theraputics.


2. Front Toxicol. 2025 Jul 1;7:1578230. doi: 10.3389/ftox.2025.1578230.
eCollection  2025.

Toxicity of glyphosate accelerates neurodegeneration in Caenorhabditis elegans 
model of Alzheimer's disease.

Rani N(1), Alam MM(2), Parvez S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology, School of Chemical & Life Sciences, Jamia Hamdard, 
New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Pharmaceutical Education & 
Research, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, India.

INTRODUCTION: Pesticide-related environmental contamination poses a growing 
global concern, threatening human health, wildlife, and ecosystems. Glyphosate 
(N-phosphonomethyl-glycine, GLY), a widely used organophosphorus herbicide, has 
been associated with neurotoxic effects. This study investigates the potential 
neurodegenerative impact of glyphosate using a Caenorhabditis elegans 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) model.
METHODS: Transgenic C. elegans strain CL4176, which expresses human amyloid-beta 
(Aβ1-42) upon temperature induction, was exposed to various concentrations of 
glyphosate (12, 15, 18.5, 20, and 25 mg/L) for 24 hours. Behavioral assays (body 
bends, head thrashes, body length, and pharyngeal pumping), oxidative stress 
markers (catalase activity), and Aβ protein expression were evaluated.
RESULTS: Glyphosate exposure induced a concentration-dependent decline in 
locomotor and feeding behaviors. Catalase activity was significantly reduced, 
indicating elevated oxidative stress. Additionally, a marked increase in Aβ1-42 
protein expression was observed in glyphosate-treated CL4176 worms.
DISCUSSION: These findings suggest that glyphosate exacerbates Aβ toxicity and 
induces AD-like phenotypes in the C. elegans model through behavioral 
impairment, oxidative stress, and increased Aβ accumulation. Glyphosate's 
potential contribution to neurodegenerative processes warrants further 
investigation.

Copyright © 2025 Rani, Alam and Parvez.

DOI: 10.3389/ftox.2025.1578230
PMCID: PMC12259624
PMID: 40667448

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


3. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 27:2025.06.26.660445. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.26.660445.

Development of a method for large-scale single-molecule analysis of tau 
proteoforms.

Joly J, Budamagunta V, Zhang Z, Nortman B, Jouzi M, Bhatnagar R, Egertson JD, 
Flaster ME, Grothe R, Guha S, Kaneshige K, McVey K, Nelson N, Perera RT, Tan SJ, 
Arnott D, Lipka J, Rougé L, Wendorff TJ, Kirkpatrick D, Rohou A, Butler DC, Lotz 
S, Forton A, Sartori ER, Brereton PS, Chen K, Darcy MA, Golnabi HR, Hartley R, 
Indermuhl PF, Inman CE, Jin KM, Katsyuk S, Kota R, Lowry B, Menger JC, Miller 
DA, Newman MR, Ogunyemi A, Robinson JK, Steiner N, Sun J, Wang L, Wang Z, Wilcox 
SK; Nautilus Biotechnology; Kapp GT, Patel S, Temple S, Bertucci T, Blanchard J, 
Huhmer A, Sankar S, Juneau K, Mallick P.

Proteins exist as diverse proteoforms resulting from a combination of genetic 
variation, alternative splicing, and post-translational modifications. Current 
methods struggle to capture this complexity at the single-molecule level. Here 
we introduce Iterative Ma pping of P roteoforms (IMaP), a method that enables 
the massively-parallel interrogation of millions to billions of single-protein 
molecules through iterative probing with fluorescently labeled antibodies. Using 
12 site-specific antibodies, the method is capable of measuring 2 12 (4,096) 
potential proteoform groups. We used IMaP to measure proteoform group profiles 
of the tau protein, a key player in neurodegenerative diseases, using two pan 
anti-tau antibodies (Tau-13, Tau-216), three isoform-specific antibodies 
(Anti-0N, Anti-2N, Anti-4R), and seven phosphosite-specific antibodies 
(Anti-pT181, Anti-pS202+pT205, Anti-pT205, Anti-pS214, Anti-pT217, Anti-pT231, 
and Anti-pS396). The method demonstrates high sensitivity (detecting proteoforms 
at 0.1% abundance), high reproducibility (median CV <5.5%), and broad dynamic 
range (>3 orders of magnitude), outperforming conventional techniques in 
resolving closely related proteoform groups. We demonstrated that the method can 
be used on relevant biological samples by examining various neuronal models 
(iNeuron cells, organoids, miBrains, and mouse brains) and human samples. This 
examination revealed 130 distinct tau proteoform groups with as many as six 
phosphorylation events. The non-random distribution of these phosphorylation 
events suggests ordered and site-specific modification processes rather than 
random, stochastic accumulation. Certain combinations of phosphorylation events 
were more abundant than others; for example, pT217 preferentially co-occurred 
with pT181. In validating the applicability of the assay to human disease 
samples, we noted a specific pattern of multiple phosphorylation events in an 
advanced Alzheimer's disease patient that suggests a sequential pathway of 
pathological tau modification. Iterative Mapping of Proteoforms provides 
insights into proteoform complexity at the single-molecule level, with 
significant implications for understanding protein regulation in 
neurodegenerative diseases and beyond.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.26.660445
PMCID: PMC12262352
PMID: 40667364


4. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 28:2025.06.25.661596. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.25.661596.

Sex-Stratified Transcriptomic Meta-Analysis of Alzheimer's Disease Reveal Brain 
Region and Sex Specific Dysregulation.

Young JI, Varma A, Gomez L, Schmidt MA, Kunkle B, Wang L, Martin ER.

OBJECTIVE: Alzheimer disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder leading to 
cognitive decline. Despite growing recognition of sex differences in 
epidemiology, symptomatology, and clinical outcomes of AD, the molecular 
mechanisms underlying these variations remain poorly defined. We performed 
transcriptome association studies of AD aiming to identify sex-specific and 
sex-dependent transcriptomic profiles that could provide insights into the 
molecular mechanisms underlying sex differences in AD pathogenesis.
METHODS: We conducted a meta-analysis of bulk-RNAseq data derived from human 
postmortem brain studies. Specifically, we analyzed gene expression differences 
between individuals diagnosed with AD and non-cognitively impaired (NCI) 
individuals across two key brain regions: the prefrontal cortex and the temporal 
lobe. We performed stratified differential expression analyses separately in 
males and females, alongside combined analyses across sexes. Additionally, we 
assessed the data in relation to known AD genes, proteomic studies, and drug 
repurposing opportunities.
RESULTS: Beyond the genes commonly dysregulated across both sexes, our 
meta-analyses identified multiple differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between 
AD and NCI that are either altered in only one sex or show different effects 
between sexes. Some genes are known AD genes from genetic studies, but others 
are novel. Correlation with proteomic data suggests that these transcriptional 
differences have functional significance, potentially contributing to the 
biological mechanisms underlying sex differences observed in AD. Finally, we 
identify drug compounds that are potential candidates for treatment.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings enhance our understanding of sex-related 
differences in disease etiology and progression, and underscore the importance 
of incorporating sex as a critical variable in transcriptomic studies of AD. 
These insights help pave the way for more precise, personalized medicine 
approaches that account for sex-specific molecular mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.25.661596
PMCID: PMC12262414
PMID: 40667349


5. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 26:2025.06.20.660588. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.20.660588.

In vivo palpation of anisotropic human brain tissue using MRI.

Magdoom KN, Avram AV, Sarlls JE, Basser PJ.

The mechanical stiffness of brain parenchyma varies across physiological states 
and pathophysiological conditions, such as during normal and abnormal 
development, in degenerative diseases and disorders, like Alzheimer's disease 
and traumatic brain injury (TBI), neuronal activation, and sleep via the 
glymphatic brain waste clearance mechanism. Despite its biological and clinical 
importance, relatively few techniques exist to measure and map mechanical 
properties of brain tissue non-invasively and in vivo . MR elastography (MRE) is 
an established method that has been widely used to estimate tissue stiffness in 
the liver by applying mechanical waves using an external tamper and measuring 
their resulting deformations. However, applying MRE in the brain is more 
challenging due to the skull and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which impede 
mechanical wave propagation, and tissue mechanical anisotropy, which requires a 
4 th -order tensor description. In this study, we propose using the intrinsic 
deformation of brain tissue caused by periodic cardiac pulsation to measure the 
4 th -order stiffness tensor throughout the brain while simultaneously 
estimating the 2 nd -order diffusion tensor in each voxel throughout the cardiac 
cycle, which we use as a priori information in the reconstruction of the 
stiffness tensor. While the DTI-derived mean diffusivity (MD) appears uniform 
throughout brain parenchyma, stiffness maps obtained at about 1 Hz (i.e., at the 
fundamental cardiac frequency) show contrast within gray matter, and within 
white matter pathways such as along the corpus callosum, internal capsule, 
corona radiata, etc. Generally, stiffness differences at internal tissue 
boundaries are expected to lead to local stress concentration, which may 
predispose tissues to damage in TBI. Therefore, our novel tamperless MRE method 
has the potential to not only identify such interfaces, but assess changes in 
tissue stiffness there that might occur following injury.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.20.660588
PMCID: PMC12262298
PMID: 40667250


6. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 19:2025.06.15.659815. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.15.659815.

APOE4 drives widespread changes to the hepatic proteome and alters metabolic 
function.

Lysaker CR, Johnson CN, Csikos V, Franczak E, Benson M, Thyfault JP, Geiger PC, 
Morris JK, Wilkins HM.

Apolipoprotein E (APOE) is essential for lipid homeostasis and has been 
extensively studied in the central nervous system, particularly in the context 
of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Individuals carrying an APOE4 allele have an 
increased risk of AD and exhibit deficits in energy metabolism, including 
glucose utilization and mitochondrial dysfunction. While the role of APOE in the 
liver is well characterized, the impact of APOE genetic variation on hepatic 
health and metabolism remains poorly understood. We sought to investigate this 
using young female and male APOE3 and APOE4 targeted replacement mice. We also 
used APOE isogenic induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived hepatocyte-like 
cells (iHLCs) to examine specific effects in a human-relevant cell model. 
Proteomic and functional assays show that APOE4 causes extensive changes to 
liver mitochondrial function in a sex-specific manner in mice and alters glucose 
and lipid metabolism. APOE4 also impairs mitochondrial function in iHLCs and 
shifts metabolism towards glycolysis while modifying expression of extracellular 
matrix proteins. Additionally, APOE4 iHLCs display a greater reliance on fatty 
acids as an energy source and show increased lipid accumulation. Taken together, 
our findings show that APOE genetic variation causes mitochondrial dysfunction 
and rewires hepatic metabolism.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.15.659815
PMCID: PMC12262631
PMID: 40667248


7. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 27:2025.06.23.661111. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.661111.

Structure-specific Mini-Prion Model for Alzheimer's Disease Tau Fibrils.

Vijayan V, Merz GE, Tsay K, Longhini AP, Lobo S, Quddus A, Nakagawa KLS, Vigers 
MP, Melo AA, Tse E, Shea JE, Shell MS, Kosik KS, Southworth DR, Han S.

A critical discovery of the past decade is that tau protein fibrils adopt 
disease-specific hallmark structures in each tauopathy. The faithful generation 
of synthetic fibrils adopting hallmark structures that can serve as targets for 
developing diagnostic and/or therapeutic strategies remains a grand challenge. 
We report on a rational design of synthetic fibrils built of a short peptide 
that adopts a critical structural motif in tauopathy fibrils found in 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE). They serve 
as minimal prions with exquisite seeding competency, in vitro and in tau 
biosensor cells, for recruiting tau constructs ten times larger its size en 
route to AD or CTE fibril structures. We demonstrate that the generation of AD 
and CTE-like fibril structures is dramatically catalyzed in the presence of 
mini-AD prions and further influenced by salt composition in solution. Double 
Electron-Electron Resonance studies confirmed the preservation of AD-like folds 
across multi-generational seeding. Fibrils formed with the full AD/CTE-like core 
show strong seeding competency, with their templating effect dominating over the 
choice of salt composition that tunes the initial selection of AD- and CTE-like 
fibril populations. The mini-AD prions serve as a potent catalyst with 
templating capabilities that offer a novel strategy to design pathological tau 
fibril models.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.661111
PMCID: PMC12262644
PMID: 40667213


8. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 17:2025.06.16.659991. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.16.659991.

Sustained Lysosomal Delivery of Enhanced Cy3-Labeled Acid Nanoparticles Restores 
Lysosomal pH in Retinal Pigment Epithelial Cells and Astrocytes.

Li J, Wang T, Lu W, Jishkariani D, Tsourkas A, Kaja S, Nair RM, Dunaief JL, 
Mitchell CH.

Lysosomal pH is frequently elevated in age-dependent neurodegenerations like 
Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD), Alzheimer's Disease (AD), and 
Parkinson's Disease (PD). Tools that restore lysosomal pH to an optimal acidic 
range could enhance enzymatic degradation and reduce waste accumulation. Acidic 
nanoparticles offer a promising strategy for restoring lysosomal function, but 
accurate tracking of organelle delivery and long-term retention is needed to 
optimize dosage. To improve detection and enhance delivery, nanoparticles were 
synthesized from Poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) polymers covalently 
linked to the fluorescent Cyanine3 amine (Cy3) probe. Nanoparticle concentration 
and loading times were optimized to achieve >90% delivery to lysosomes in 
cultured induced pluripotent stem cell-derived retinal pigment epithelial 
(iPS-RPE) cells. Uptake was heterogeneous, varying between adjacent cells. Once 
loaded into lysosomes, the nanoparticles were stably retained, with no 
detectable changes in concentration, distribution, or size for at least 28 days. 
iPS-RPE cells internalized more nanoparticles than the ARPE-19 cell line or 
mouse optic nerve head astrocyte cultures. Functionally, PLGA nanoparticles 
restored an acidic pH and cathepsin D levels in compromised lysosomes. In 
summary, Cy3-PLGA nanoparticles enabled improved tracking and long-term delivery 
to lysosomes, supporting future in vivo applications to restore lysosomal pH in 
aging and degenerating tissues.
NEW AND NOTEWORTHY: Tools that restore acidic pH in compromised lysosomes can 
enhance autophagy and waste degradation in degenerative disorders marked by 
excessive accumulation. Here, we describe the novel synthesis of 
lysosome-targeted nanoparticles composed of PLGA polymers covalently bound to 
Cy3 fluorescent dye. These Cy3-PLGA nanoparticles enabled improved tracking of 
lysosomal delivery and demonstrated sustained long-term retention within 
lysosomes, supporting their potential for future applications to restore 
lysosomal pH in aging and degenerating tissues.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.16.659991
PMCID: PMC12262198
PMID: 40667189


9. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 26:2025.06.22.660908. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.22.660908.

Discovery of an Achiral Small Molecule TREM2 Agonist with Improved 
Pharmacokinetic Profile and Validated Target Engagement.

Yuan S, Gaamouch FE, Cho S, Kuncewicz K, Nada H, Gabr MT.

The triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a lipid-sensing 
immunoreceptor on microglia that has emerged as a therapeutic target for 
Alzheimer's disease. Here, we report the discovery of C1 , an achiral structural 
analog of VG-3927 -the first small molecule TREM2 agonist to enter clinical 
development. C1 was synthesized via a modular and enantioselective-free route 
using sequential Suzuki couplings, enabling rapid scaffold diversification. 
Compared to VG-3927 , the stereochemically simplified derivative ( C1 ) exhibits 
superior microglial phagocytosis and validated target engagement. C1 induces 
TREM2 activation in HEK293-hTREM2/DAP12 cells, and its direct binding to TREM2 
was confirmed using both microscale thermophoresis (MST) and surface plasmon 
resonance (SPR). Importantly, C1 also demonstrates a superior pharmacokinetic 
profile to VG-3927 , including enhanced metabolic stability in human and mouse 
microsomes, favorable PAMPA permeability, and a LogD 7 . 4 compatible with CNS 
penetration. Docking studies suggested a potential binding mode of C1 at the 
extracellular domain of TREM2, revealing key polar and hydrophobic interactions. 
These findings position C1 as a synthetically accessible and pharmacokinetically 
favorable lead for the development of TREM2-targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.22.660908
PMCID: PMC12262628
PMID: 40667188


10. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 18:2025.06.17.659820. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.17.659820.

Population-specific brain charts reveal Chinese-Western differences in 
neurodevelopmental trajectories.

Sun L, Qin W, Liang X, Wang C, Men W, Duan Y, Fan XR, Cai Q, Qiu S, Wang M, Gong 
Q, Tian Y, Liang P, Liu Z, Zhang X, Song H, Ye Z, Zhang P, Dong Q, Tao S, Zhu W, 
Zhang J, Xie F, Feng J, Zhang J, Liu C, Qian Q, Zhang B, Meng M, Hu L, Gao JH, 
Jiang T, Zhu X, Zhang Y, Liu L, Liu H, Liao W, Wang D, Wang H, Guo T, Dai Z, Lui 
S, Xu K, Li L, Xie P, Feng C, Cui G, Wu J, Yin X, Ding G, Xian J, Zhao L, Lu J, 
Liu Z, Han Y, Yuan Z, Zhang X, Si T, Zhou F, Bi Y, Wu D, Gao F, Wang F, Qin S, 
Wang G, Chen F, Zhang Z, Sui J, Chen H, Cai J, Liu S, Geng Z, Zhang C, Mao N, 
Yin H, Liu B, Ma H, Gao B, Miao Y, Kong XZ, Zhou Y, Liu L, Hu J, Wang L, Zhang 
Q, Shu H, Wang P, Lee TMC, Cao Q, Yang L, Zhang X, Luo W, Liang M, Yao H, Li M, 
Huang H, Peng Y, Han Z, Zhou C, Xu H, Feng M, Shen W, Hu Y, Chen H, Wang Y, Gong 
G, Yan Z, Xu X, Liu J, Chen G, Wang P, Yang Y, Yao D, Han T, He H, Chen C, Zou 
Q, Liu H, Zhang H, Chai C, Lu C, Tu Y, Liu Y, Lin D, Zhao W, Xu X, Liu X, Cui Z, 
Wang Z, Huang R, Li Z, Liu Y, Li X, Yang X, Zhang N, Chen A, Zhang B, Qin P, Liu 
C, Yao Z, Wei Y, Yuan H, Wang F, Zhang Y, Zhang Q, Hu F, Xie H, Wu X, Wang J, 
Fan G, Wang Z, Zhang D, Zhong H, Wang Y, Bai L, Li Y, Wei X, Wang J, Zhang Y, He 
H, Li S, Zhang T, Jiang F, Yang J, Chen F, Liu F, Liu H, Chen N, Yang J, Hou B, 
Huang CC, Zhu J, Cai H, Wei D, Chen Q, Wei Y, Miao P, Li Y, Liu Y, Yang N, Gao 
X, Liu Y, Shen Y, Huang X, Ji GJ; Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative; 
CHIMGEN Consortium; DIDA-MDD Working Group; MCADI; Chinese Lifespan Brain 
Mapping Consortium; Zhang L, Qiu J, Yu Y, Lin CP, Feng F, Li K, Yu C, He Y.

Human brain charts provide unprecedented opportunities for decoding 
neurodevelopmental milestones and establishing clinical benchmarks for precision 
brain medicine 1-7 . However, current lifespan brain charts are primarily 
derived from European and North American cohorts, with Asian populations 
severely underrepresented. Here, we present the first population-specific brain 
charts for China, developed through the Chinese Lifespan Brain Mapping 
Consortium (Phase I) using neuroimaging data from 43,037 participants (aged 
0-100 years) across 384 sites nationwide. We establish the lifespan normative 
trajectories for 296 structural brain phenotypes, encompassing global, 
subcortical, and cortical measures. Cross-population comparisons with Western 
brain charts (based on data from 56,339 participants aged 0-100 years) reveal 
distinct neurodevelopmental patterns in the Chinese population, including 
prolonged cortical and subcortical maturation, accelerated cerebellar growth, 
and earlier development of sensorimotor regions relative to paralimbic regions. 
Crucially, these Chinese-specific charts outperform Western-derived models in 
predicting healthy brain phenotypes and detecting pathological deviations in 
Chinese clinical cohorts. These findings highlight the urgent need for diverse, 
population-representative brain charts to advance equitable precision 
neuroscience and improve clinical validity across populations.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.17.659820
PMCID: PMC12262810
PMID: 40667167


11. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 25:2025.06.19.660619. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.19.660619.

Identification of Chlamydia pneumoniae and NLRP3 inflammasome activation in 
Alzheimer's disease retina.

Gaire BP, Koronyo Y, Vit JP, Hutton A, Swerdlow N, Fuchs DT, Rentsendorj A, 
Shahin S, Subedi L, Robinson E, Ljubimov AV, Schneider LS, Hawes D, Graham SL, 
Gupta VK, Mirzaei M, Black KL, Meyer JG, Arditi M, Crother TR, Koronyo-Hamaoui 
M.

Chlamydia pneumoniae (Cp), an obligate intracellular bacterium, has been 
implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet its role in retinal pathology 
remains unexplored. We analyzed postmortem tissues from 95 human donors and 
found 2.9-4.1-fold increases in Cp inclusions in AD retinas and brains, with no 
significant elevation in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Proteomics revealed 
dysregulation of retinal and brain bacterial infection-related proteins and 
NLRP3 inflammasome pathways. NLRP3 expression was markedly elevated in MCI and 
AD retinas, and its activation was evident by increased N-terminal gasdermin D 
(NGSDMD) and mature interleukin-1β. Retinal Cp strongly correlated with Aβ 42 
and NLRP3 inflammasome components, which tightly linked to cleaved 
caspase-3-apoptotic and NGSDMD-pyroptotic cell death. Although retinal 
microgliosis was elevated in AD, Cp-associated microglia were reduced by 62%, 
suggesting impaired Cp phagocytosis. Higher retinal Cp burden correlated with 
APOEε4, Braak stage, and cognitive deficit. Machine learning identified retinal 
Cp or NLRP3 combined with Aβ 42 as strong predictors of AD diagnosis, staging, 
and cognitive impairment. Our findings suggest that Cp infection contributes to 
AD dementia but not initiating pathology, whereas early NLRP3 activation may 
promote disease development, warranting studies on Cp's role in AD pathogenesis 
and early antibiotic or inflammasome-targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.19.660619
PMCID: PMC12262374
PMID: 40667156


12. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 25:2025.06.23.661052. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.661052.

Tau Clearance Reverses Neuronal Dysfunction in Both Young and Aged C. elegans.

Carroll T, Johnson GVW, Nehrke K.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is an age-related dementia and presents a growing 
medical and economic burden as the average human lifespan continues to rise. AD 
is classically diagnosed via the accumulation and aggregation of two major 
proteins: amyloid-β and tau. To date, potential and FDA-approved therapies 
designed to clear these aggregates at best delay rather than prevent disease, 
indicating that the root cause of AD lay upstream of aggregate formation. Tau 
protein's phosphorylation is critical for AD progression, and phosphorylation at 
Threonine 231 is thought to be an early disease-associated, "gatekeeper" event. 
Previously, we showed that genomic, single-copy insertion of phosphomimetic 
human tau (T231E) into C. elegans mechanosensory neurons induced age-dependent 
deficits in light-touch sensation. Herein, we have generated new C. elegans 
models which express pan-neuronal human tau to assess the idea of selective 
vulnerability and whether specific neuronal behaviors might be impacted 
preferentially. We also tested whether tau clearance via an Auxin Inducible 
Degron (AID) could reverse these deficits. Despite our hypothesis that prolonged 
stress in older animals would induce irreversible metabolic rewiring or 
maladaptation, tau depletion rescued known behavioral deficits at all ages 
tested, including in old worms which displayed the most overt phenotypes. Taken 
together, our data suggest that neuronal dysfunction induced by phosphorylated 
tau is reversible and provides reassurance that current early-phase therapeutic 
efforts aimed at reducing soluble tau levels in AD patients may prove effective.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.661052
PMCID: PMC12262316
PMID: 40667146


13. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 17:2025.06.13.659328. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.13.659328.

Redox reactivities of membrane-bound Amyloid-β-Cu complexes and their targeting 
by metallothionein-3.

Perez-Medina L, Meloni G.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-β 
peptide (Aβ 1-40/42 ) in the central nervous system (CNS) and its aggregation in 
senile amyloid plaques. Copper coordination to Aβ triggers Aβ 1-40/42 
aggregation and, in the presence of biological reducing agents, it promotes the 
catalytic generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) via Fenton-type and 
Haber-Weiss reactions. Due to its amphiphilic nature, Aβ 1-40/42 can interact 
with cell membranes and compromise their integrity by thinning the lipid bilayer 
and forming channel-like structures potentially leading to cell death. In this 
work, by applying biophysical and biochemical approaches, we characterized the 
insertion of Aβ 1-42 into an artificial lipid bilayer system mimicking cell 
membranes and demonstrate that the Aβ 1-42 -lipid interaction does not prevent 
the Cu 2+ coordination to Aβ 1-42 . We performed a comparative analysis of the 
redox reactivities of membrane-bound Aβ 1-42 (memAβ 1-42 -Cu 2+ ) species with 
soluble Aβ 1-42 -Cu 2+ establishing that membrane insertion leads to memAβ 1-42 
-Cu 2+ complexes featuring an enhanced detrimental catechol oxidase activity 
towards the neurotransmitter dopamine. Moreover, memAβ 1-42 -Cu 2+ efficiently 
catalyzes Aβ di-tyrosine crosslinking and hydroxyl radical production in the 
presence of ascorbate. In addition, we establish that memAβ 1-42 -Cu 2+ redox 
reactivity catalyze lipid peroxidation in membranes containing polyunsaturated 
fatty acids (PUFAs), such as arachidonic acid (AA), leading to the generation of 
malondialdehyde (MDA) toxic end-products. This reactivity compromises the 
structural integrity of the lipid bilayers resulting in membrane leakage, 
further substantiating how important is to control aberrant Aβ 1-40/42 -Cu 2+ 
interactions in AD. Metallothioneins (MTs) are key metalloproteins central to 
neuronal and astrocytic transition metal homeostasis and buffering. These 
cysteine-rich proteins bind with high affinity d 10 metals (Cu + and Zn 2+ ) 
forming two metal thiolate clusters in their N-terminal β-domain and C-terminal 
α-domain. The metallothionein-3 (MT-3) isoform is central to metal homeostasis 
in the CNS, but it is downregulated in AD patients, possessing a neuroprotective 
role in AD. MT-3 can control aberrant protein-Cu 2+ interactions and the 
Cu-centered redox reactivities of amyloidogenic protein-Cu 2+ complexes such as 
α-synuclein (Parkinson's disease), PrP (prion disease), and soluble and 
aggregated Aβ 1-40 (AD). In this work, we unravel that the detrimental memAβ 
1-42 -Cu 2+ catechol oxidase and redox reactivities can be efficiently silenced 
by MT-3 via metal swap reactions, effectively scavenging and reducing Cu 2+ to 
Cu + in its β-domain using thiolates as electron source, forming the redox-inert 
species Cu + 4 Zn 2+ 4 MT-3. Consequently, MT-3 can efficiently prevent lipid 
peroxidation and protect membrane structural integrity. New strategies targeting 
membrane-bound Aβ 1-42 -Cu 2+ complexes as key players of the AD etiology could 
be envisioned.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.13.659328
PMCID: PMC12262618
PMID: 40667129


14. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 25:2025.06.20.660774. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.20.660774.

Synergistic effects of APOE ε4 and Alzheimer's pathology on the neural 
correlates of episodic remembering in cognitively unimpaired older adults.

Trelle AN, Sheng J, Wilson EN, Romero A, Park J, Deutsch GK, Sha SJ, Greicius 
MD, Andreasson KI, Kerchner GA, Mormino EC, Wagner AD.

Amyloid-β (Aβ) and tau pathology begin accumulating decades before clinical 
symptoms and are influenced by APOE ε4, a key genetic risk factor for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although the presence of Aβ, tau, and APOE ε4 are 
thought to impact brain function, their effects on the neural correlates of 
episodic memory retrieval in preclinical AD remains unknown. We investigated 
this question in 159 cognitively unimpaired older adults (mean age, 68.9±5.8 
years; 57% female) in the Stanford Aging and Memory Study. Participants 
completed an associative memory task concurrent with functional MRI. Aβ was 
measured using CSF Aβ 42 /Aβ 40 or Florbetaben-PET imaging and tau was measured 
using CSF pTau 181 . Hippocampal univariate activity and cortical reinstatement 
- that is, reinstatement of patterns of neocortical activity that were present 
during memory encoding - were measured during successful memory retrieval. 
Analyses revealed that APOE ε4 was independently associated with greater Aβ and 
tau burden, and that associations of AD biomarkers with brain function and 
memory were moderated by APOE ε4. Among APOE ε4 non-carriers, Aβ burden was 
linked to a pattern of hippocampal hyperactivity. Among APOE ε4 carriers, CSF 
pTau 181 was linked to weaker cortical reinstatement during memory retrieval and 
lower memory performance. Thus, abnormal AD biomarkers and genetic risk 
synergistically impact neural and behavioral expressions of memory in 
preclinical AD. These findings highlight the critical role of APOE ε4 in 
moderating effects of AD pathology on brain function and identify candidate 
mechanisms that may contribute to increased risk of memory impairment in 
preclinical AD.
SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Hippocampus-dependent cortical reinstatement is a 
critical mechanism supporting episodic remembering that contributes to 
individual differences in memory performance in older adults. However, the 
contribution of early Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology to variability in this 
mechanism is unknown. We demonstrate that associations of AD biomarkers with 
hippocampal activity and cortical reinstatement are moderated by APOE ε4 in 
cognitively unimpaired older adults. Amyloid-β-related hyperactivity was 
observed in the hippocampus among APOE ε4 non-carriers, while CSF pTau 181 was 
linked to weaker cortical reinstatement during memory retrieval and lower memory 
performance among APOE ε4 carriers. Our findings highlight synergistic effects 
of APOE and AD pathology on brain function and identify candidate mechanisms 
that may underlie increased risk of memory impairment in preclinical AD.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.20.660774
PMCID: PMC12262513
PMID: 40667041


15. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 20:2025.06.17.660179. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.17.660179.

Tau-seed interactome analysis reveals distinct functional signatures in 
Alzheimer's disease across model systems.

Martinez P, Patel H, You Y, Lopes D, Amaro A, Jury-Garfe N, Min Y, Redding-Ochoa 
J, Dutta S, Rochet JC, Ertekin-Taner N, Troncoso JC, Lasagna-Reeves CA.

Tau aggregates propagate through the brain in a prion-like manner in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and other tauopathies, but the molecular identity and functional 
partners of the seeding-competent Tau species remain poorly defined. Here, we 
present an unbiased proteomic profiling of a high-molecular-weight (HMW) 
Tau-seed isolated from AD patient brains. We contrast this interactome with that 
of a biochemically similar, seeding-incompetent HMW-Tau species from age-matched 
healthy controls. Despite comprising less than 5% of total Tau in the brain, 
Tau-seed associates with a distinct set of proteins enriched in synaptic, 
mitochondrial, and vesicle-trafficking functions. Cross-species functional 
screening in Drosophila and mouse models identifies interactors that modulate 
Tau toxicity and seeding. Spatially resolved analysis of postmortem AD brains 
reveals heterogenous co-deposition of these proteins with Tau aggregates, 
suggesting functionally distinct Tau-seed complexes. Together, this dataset 
provides a framework for understanding selective Tau-seed toxicity and 
identifies candidate regulators of Tau propagation with therapeutic potential.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.17.660179
PMCID: PMC12262711
PMID: 40666999


16. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 16:2025.06.15.659811. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.15.659811.

Proteomic and metabolic profiling reveals APOE4 -dependent shifts in whole 
brain, neuronal, and astrocytic mitochondrial function and glycolysis.

Lysaker CR, Johnson CN, Csikos V, Franczak E, Benson M, Gilmore CA, Birky CJ, 
Davis X, McCoin CS, Smith KP, Puchalska P, Crawford P, Slawson C, Thyfault JP, 
Geiger PC, Morris JK, Wilkins HM.

Apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) genetic variation is the strongest genetic risk factor 
for late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD). Studies on APOE genotype dependent 
changes have largely focused on amyloid beta (Aβ) aggregation, disease 
pathology, and lipid metabolism. Recently, there has been increased interest in 
the relationship between metabolic function and APOE genetic variation. In this 
study, we examined how APOE genotype can alter metabolism in the brains of young 
male and female APOE3 and APOE4 targeted replacement (TR) mice. In combination 
with this, we also examined cell type-specific differences using induced 
pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) derived astrocytes and neurons. We found sex and 
genotype dependent changes to metabolism in the brains of young APOE TR mice. 
Specifically, APOE4 mice show signs of metabolic stress and compensatory 
mechanisms in the brain. Using proteomics and stable isotope tracing 
metabolomics, we found that APOE4 iAstrocytes and iNeurons exhibit signs of 
inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, altered TCA cycle and malate-aspartate 
shuttle activity, and a metabolic shift toward glycolysis. Taken together, this 
data indicates APOE4 causes early changes to metabolism within the central 
nervous system. While this study establishes a relationship between APOE 
genotype and alterations in bioenergetics, additional studies are needed to 
investigate underlying mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.15.659811
PMCID: PMC12262718
PMID: 40666931


17. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 22:2025.06.16.659949. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.16.659949.

JASMINE: A powerful representation learning method for enhanced analysis of 
incomplete multi-omics data.

Ballard JL, Dai Z, Shen L, Long Q; Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative; 
Alzheimer’s Disease Metabolomics Consortium.

Integrative analysis of multi-omics data provides a more comprehensive and 
nuanced view of a subject's biological state. However, high-dimensionality and 
ubiquitous modality missingness present significant analytical challenges. 
Existing methods for incomplete multi-omics data are scarce, do not fully 
leverage both modality-specific and shared information, and produce task-biased 
representations. We propose JASMINE, a self-supervised representation learning 
method for incomplete multi-omics data that preserves both modality-specific and 
joint information and enhances sample similarity structure. JASMINE produces 
embeddings that achieve superior performance across multiple tasks for two 
different incomplete multi-omics datasets while requiring only a single round of 
training per dataset.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.16.659949
PMCID: PMC12262649
PMID: 40666922


18. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 24:2025.06.18.660344. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.18.660344.

Epigenetic genes are differentially methylated in the blood of persons with mild 
cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.

Faasen SG, Papale LA, Boruch A, Bergmann PE, Hogan KJ, Alisch RS.

BACKGROUND: Environmental factors play a role in AD pathology and are mediated 
by changes in DNA methylation levels.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We investigated whole genome methylation sequencing (WGMS) 
data from the blood of participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI, N =99), 
late onset dementia due to Alzheimer's disease (AD, N =109), and who are 
cognitively unimpaired (CU, N =174) to test for differential methylation in 812 
genes with roles in epigenetic regulation ( e.g. , DNA methylation and 
demethylation, chromatin remodeling, histone modification, and RNA modification) 
curated from the EpiFactors 2.1 database. 71/812 genes were differentially 
methylated comprising 190 unique differentially methylated positions (DMPs) in 
MCI (MCI vs . CU pairwise comparison). 60/812 genes were differentially 
methylated comprising 220 DMPs in AD (AD vs . CU pairwise comparison). The 
majority of differentially methylated genes in both MCI (41/71) and AD (33/60) 
were histone modification genes and 23 differentially methylated genes were 
shared in both pairwise comparisons. 96 genes were differentially methylated 
comprising 243 DMPs between persons with MCI and AD (AD vs . MCI pairwise 
comparison). 10 differentially methylated genes were shared between the 3 
pairwise comparisons, including CUGBP elav-like family member 2 ( CELF2 ), 
histone deacetylase 9 ( HDAC9 ), RNA binding fox-1 homolog 1 ( RBFOX1 ), 
TATA-box binding protein associated factor 4 ( TAF4 ), and thymine DNA 
glycosylase ( TDG ).
CONCLUSION: Genes that participate in the epigenetic regulation of gene 
expression, particularly histone modifications, are differentially methylated in 
blood between persons with and without MCI and AD, warranting further 
elucidation of their role in the molecular pathogenesis of cognitive decline.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.18.660344
PMCID: PMC12262265
PMID: 40666910


19. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Jul 14;11(3):e70130. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70130. 
eCollection 2025 Jul-Sep.

Cardiorespiratory fitness modifies the relationship between arterial stiffness 
and cerebral blood flow independent of physical activity.

Breidenbach BM(1)(2), Driscoll I(1)(2), Glittenberg MP(1)(2), Paulsen AJ(1)(2), 
Fernandes-Taylor S(1)(2), Naren T(3), Roberts GS(3), Brach TL(1)(2), Jarchow 
MM(1)(2), Symanski LE(1)(2), Gaul AY(1)(2), Lose SR(1)(2), Rivera-Rivera LA(3), 
Johnson SC(1)(2), Asthana S(1)(2)(4), Christian BT(3), Cook DB(5)(6), Wieben 
O(3)(7), Okonkwo OC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center Department of Medicine 
University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health Madison Wisconsin 
USA.
(2)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine 
and Public Health Madison Wisconsin USA.
(3)Department of Medical Physics Department of Medicine University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health Madison Wisconsin USA.
(4)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center William S. Middleton VA 
Hospital Madison Wisconsin USA.
(5)Department of Kinesiology University of Wisconsin School of Education 1300 
University Avenue Madison Wisconsin USA.
(6)William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Hospital, Department of Medicine, 
Univerity of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health Madison Wisconsin 
USA.
(7)Department of Radiology E3/366 Clinical Science Center University of 
Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health Madison Wisconsin USA.

INTRODUCTION: Central arterial stiffness and cerebral blood flow (CBF) are 
inversely related. Poor cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and low physical 
activity (PA) are related to both higher arterial stiffness and lower CBF. The 
present study examined (i) whether CRF or PA moderate the relationship between 
arterial stiffness and CBF, and (ii) whether the intensity or the type of PA 
needs to be considered.
METHODS: Participants (N = 78, MeanAGE = 64.2±6.14, 72% female) from the 
Wisconsin Registry for Alzheimer's Prevention and the Wisconsin Alzheimer's 
Disease Research Center were categorized into low, average, and high fitness 
groups based on maximal graded exercise treadmill test performance. PA was 
assessed using the CHAMPS (Community Health Activities Model Program for 
Seniors) questionnaire. Based on hours/week, participants were classified as 
meeting the recommended 2.5 h of moderate intensity PA per week (PA Rec Met). 
Weekly hours of moderate and low intensity PA were calculated as activities of > 
3 or < 3 metabolic equivalents, respectively. Activity type was categorized as 
exercise-, sports/leisure- and work-related. Arterial stiffness was measured as 
aortic pulse wave velocity (aoPWV) by 2D phase contrast magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI). CBF was assessed by 4D flow MRI in the internal carotid arteries 
(ICAs), cavernous ICAs, middle cerebral arteries (MCAs), and via two composite 
measures of total and global flow.
RESULTS: The association between aoPWV and CBF differed by fitness levels, with 
a negative relationship in the low fitness group and positive relationships in 
the average and high fitness groups (all Ps<0.05). Significant moderating 
effects on the relationships between aoPWV and CBF were also observed for PA Rec 
Met (all Ps<0.05), moderate intensity (p = 0.05), and exercise-related (all 
p's < 0.02) PA.
DISCUSSION: Average or high fitness, meeting the PA guidelines, and more 
specifically, moderate intensity and exercise-related PA seem to attenuate the 
negative relationship between aoPWV on CBF.
HIGHLIGHTS: Higher cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) reduces the negative impact 
of aortic pulse wave velocity (aoPWV) on cerebral blood flow (CBF)150 min of 
moderate physical activity (PA) also mitigates this impact, depending on 
activity typeInnovative methods: use of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
for aoPWV assessmentInnovative methods: use of free-breathing acquisition during 
cardiac MRIInnovative methods: use of cranial 4D flow MRI for CBF assessment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70130
PMCID: PMC12260121
PMID: 40666707

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Ozioma Okonkwo serves as the treasurer of 
the International Neuropsychological Society. He is also a guest editor of this 
journal but was not involved in the peer‐review process of this article nor had 
access to any information regarding its peer‐review. Dr. Sterling Johnson serves 
as a consultant and on advisory boards for ALZPath and Enigma Biosciences. Dr. 
Sanjay Asthana receives royalty as an editor of a textbook entitled, Hazzard's 
Geriatrics and Gerontology, McGraw Hill, Publisher. All other authors have no 
relevant disclosures to report.


20. Front Immunol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1455994. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1455994. 
eCollection 2025.

Chronic ethanol administration exacerbates memory loss by altering 
N6-methyladenosine-mediated epigenetic signaling.

Liao Y(#)(1), Xu F(#)(1), Yan Y(#)(1), Zhou S(1)(2), Liu N(2), Dou B(1), 
Srinivasan N(1), Wang W(3), Zhu X(4), Ye J(1), Xu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Rutgers University, the State University of New 
Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, SUNY at Buffalo, 
Buffalo, NY, United States.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, Rutgers University, the State University of New 
Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States.
(4)Department of Pathology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, 
OH, United States.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Chronic alcohol use disorder (AUD) is recognized as one of the most 
critical risk factors for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Epigenetic and neuroimmune alterations are closely associated with the 
development of memory impairment related to AUD and AD.
METHODS: Adult APP/PS1 transgenic mice received intermittently intraperitoneal 
injections of ethanol (EtOH, 2.5 g/kg, i.p.) or vehicle with two "drug" 
treatment days, and one and two "drug-free" days every 7 days for 10 weeks. The 
novel object recognition (NOR) and Y-maze tests were performed to determine 
whether chronic ethanol treatment exacerbated memory impairment in these mice. 
The brain tissues were collected for pathological changes through 
MeRIP/RNA-sequence analyses and molecular biological assays.
RESULTS: The results suggested that chronic intermittent ethanol (CIE) treatment 
for 10 weeks exacerbated sporadic and spatial memory deficits in NOR and Y-maze 
tests in the APP/PS1 mice. The pathological assays revealed that CIE procedure 
increased Aβ plaque burden in the brain of the AD mice, which were consistent 
with memory behavioral deficits. The subsequent MeRIP/RNA sequence analyses 
showed that two genes, e.g. Rbm15b and Hnrnpa2b1, were related to 
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation that plays an important role in the 
development of memory loss. These results were further supported by molecular 
biological and mRNA-microRNA-lncRNA ceRNA network analyses that demonstrated 
that the increased Rbm15b and decreased Hnrnpa2b1 were involved in synaptic 
dysfunction and neuroinflammation in CIE-induced memory impairment in these AD 
mice.
CONCLUSIONS: The conclusion is drawn that m6A mediated epigenetic dysfunction 
and immune cells infiltration participate in chronic alcohol use disorder 
related memory loss in AD mice.

Copyright © 2025 Liao, Xu, Yan, Zhou, Liu, Dou, Srinivasan, Wang, Zhu, Ye and 
Xu.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1455994
PMCID: PMC12259454
PMID: 40666518

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted without any commercial or financial relationships that could 
potentially create a conflict of interest.


21. Front Psychiatry. 2025 Jul 1;16:1570594. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1570594. 
eCollection 2025.

Cognition in virtual reality: assessing user acceptability and feasibility of 
virtual reality cognitive screening for older adults.

Lai FH(1)(2), Yee BK(2)(3), Wang EHJ(3), Butler J(4), Graham A(5), Hai EY(6), 
Darling C(1), Whittington S(1), Lowe JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing, Faculty of 
Health and Life Sciences, Northumbria University, Newcastle, United Kingdom.
(2)Mental Health Research Centre, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(4)School of Psychology, University of Sunderland, Sunderland, United Kingdom.
(5)School of Health & Life Sciences, Teesside University, Middlesbrough, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Faculty of Health Sciences and Wellbeing, University of Sunderland, 
Sunderland, United Kingdom.

INTRODUCTION: The global demographic shift towards an older population 
necessitates innovative methods to assess cognitive abilities, particularly 
spatial working memory, which is crucial for daily living and early detection of 
neurocognitive conditions like Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: This qualitative study utilised the Virtual Reality Working Memory Task 
(VRWMT), a semi-immersive VR activity using keyboard navigation, to assess 
spatial working memory in older adults. Participants were recruited from 
community centres and categorised by age and technological familiarity. Focus 
groups evaluated user perceptions based on the Technology Acceptance Model 
constructs: Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, Attitude Toward Usage, 
and Behavioural Intention to Use. The study aimed to assess the acceptability 
and feasibility of VRWMT across diverse populations, examining its navigational 
simplicity, emotional engagement, and willingness to endorse VRWMT for routine 
cognitive assessments.
RESULTS: Findings indicated significant variations in perceived usefulness, ease 
of use, attitude toward using, and behavioural intention to use across different 
age groups and socio-demographic characteristics. High-technology-familiarity 
participants found VRWMT easy to use and engaging, while those with low 
familiarity struggled with navigation and engagement. Socio-demographic factors 
such as limited digital literacy and lack of standby support impact technology 
adoption. Higher technological familiarity leads to better acceptance and 
feasibility of VRWMT.
DISCUSSION: VRWMT can enhance cognitive health monitoring and therapeutic 
interventions. The results highlighted that personalised pathways and 
user-friendly interfaces can improve accessibility and engagement, making VRWMT 
a valuable tool for cognitive assessments, as part of Occupational Therapy, in 
diverse populations.

Copyright © 2025 Lai, Yee, Wang, Butler, Graham, Hai, Darling, Whittington and 
Lowe.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1570594
PMCID: PMC12261108
PMID: 40666434

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


22. Free Neuropathol. 2025 Jul 14;6:15. doi:
10.17879/freeneuropathology-2025-6382.  eCollection 2025.

Neuroinflammatory mechanisms may help identify candidate biomarkers in chronic 
traumatic encephalopathy (CTE).

Bindra GS(1)(2), Asad S(1), Shanaa J(1), Lui F(1), Budson AE(2)(3)(4), Turk 
KW(2)(3)(4), Cherry JD(2)(3)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)California Northstate University College of Medicine, Elk Grove, USA.
(2)VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, USA.
(3)Boston University Alzheimer's Disease and CTE Centers, Boston University 
School of Medicine, Boston, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Boston University School of 
Medicine, Boston, USA.
(6)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University School of Medicine, 
Boston, USA.

Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is a neurodegenerative disease that can 
only be diagnosed post-mortem via pathological autopsy. The primary risk factor 
for CTE is a history of repetitive head impacts (RHI) received through contact 
sports including American football, hockey or soccer, military-related head 
injuries, or intimate partner violence. Recent findings have demonstrated that 
neuroinflammation is a critical compo-nent of early CTE pathogenesis and is 
likely part of the mechanism driving disease onset and progression. 
Additionally, the innate specificity, or 'signature', of a neuroinflammatory 
response may function as a dis-ease-specific marker for various 
neurodegenerative conditions. This would suggest an enormous repository of novel 
CTE biomarker candidates to be added to ongoing clinical trials, helping bolster 
diagnosis. However, few studies have truly leveraged immune mediators as 
candidate CTE markers. In this review, we argue and provide support that 
inflammatory mechanisms could serve as a viable source for novel biomarkers that 
are specific to CTE pathol-ogy. This includes an evaluation of inflammatory or 
damage-related markers such as CCL11 (C-C Motif Chem-okine Ligand 11, also known 
as Eotaxin-1), CCL21 (C-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 21) and GFAP (Glial Fibrillary 
Acidic Protein). We discuss the neuroinflammatory responses that give rise to 
these biomarkers in addition to the advantages and limitations of using each to 
diagnose CTE with particular attention to sensitivity and specifici-ty. Although 
further research is necessary to validate immune mediators, the latter show 
promise as diagnos-tic biomarkers for CTE and may also eventually serve as 
therapeutic targets for mitigating chronic inflamma-tion in at-risk populations.

© 2025 The author(s).

DOI: 10.17879/freeneuropathology-2025-6382
PMCID: PMC12261625
PMID: 40666430

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


23. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 28:2025.06.27.25330448. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.27.25330448.

Visual Memory Performance Correlates with Alzheimer's Disease Biomarkers in 
Cognitively Normal Individuals.

James TA, Zhao L, Xu H, Wu J, Schweidel DA, Goldstein FC, Levey AI, Qiu D, 
Loring DW, Hanfelt JJ, Lah JJ.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology evolves silently for many years 
prior to disease, and early identification of individuals at greatest risk is 
critical for improving outcomes.
METHODS: We conducted exploratory factor analysis (EFA) using neuropsychological 
testing from 1,697 healthy adults. Factor scores were submitted as predictors 
for structural MRI, functional connectivity, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
biomarkers.
RESULTS: The EFA model identified five latent factors. Factor 1, Verbal Memory, 
included high loadings from Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test, and Factor 2, 
Visual Memory, included high loadings from Rey Complex Figure Test (RCFT). 
Factor 2 positively correlated with hippocampal volume, precuneus and posterior 
salience network connectivity, and negatively with CSF tau. Factor 1 correlated 
with hippocampal volume but not with network connectivity or CSF biomarkers.
DISCUSSION: Results demonstrate a significant relationship of visual memory with 
AD biomarkers. RCFT may be an important assessment for evaluating and tracking 
individuals during the earliest stages of Alzheimer's pathology.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.27.25330448
PMCID: PMC12262783
PMID: 40666347


24. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 26:2025.06.25.25328705. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.25.25328705.

Integrated genomic analysis and CRISPRi implicates EGFR in Alzheimer's disease 
risk.

Leung YY, Kuksa PP, Carter L, Cifello J, Greenfest-Allen E, Valladares O, 
Boateng L, Laub S, Tulina N, Moura S, Ramirez A, Celis K, Jin F, Feng R, Wang G, 
De Jager P, Vance JM, Wang L, Grant SFA, Schellenberg GD, Chesi A, Wang LS.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous loci linked to 
late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD), but the pan-brain regional effects of 
these loci remain largely uncharacterized. To address this, we systematically 
analyzed all LOAD-associated regions reported by Bellenguez et al. using the 
FILER functional genomics catalog across 174 datasets, including enhancers, 
transcription factors, and quantitative trait loci. We identified 42 candidate 
causal variant-effector gene pairs and assessed their impact using 
enhancer-promoter interaction data, variant annotations, and brain 
cell-type-specific gene expression. Notably, the LOAD risk allele of rs74504435 
at the SEC61G locus was computationally predicted to increase EGFR expression in 
LOAD related cell types: microglia, astrocytes, and neurons. Functional 
validation using promoter-focused Capture C, ATAC-seq, and CRISPR interference 
in the HMC3 human microglia cell line confirmed this regulatory relationship. 
Our findings reveal a microglial enhancer regulating EGFR in LOAD, suggesting 
EGFR inhibitors as a potential therapeutic avenue for the disease.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.25.25328705
PMCID: PMC12262740
PMID: 40666338


25. Iran J Basic Med Sci. 2025;28(5):553-564. doi:
10.22038/ijbms.2025.82302.17799.

Bacterial endotoxin-lipopolysaccharide role in inflammatory diseases: An 
overview.

Arya P(1), Sharma V(1), Singh P(2), Thapliyal S(3), Sharma M(2).

Author information:
(1)Galgotias College of Pharmacy, Greater Noida, U.P., India.
(2)Banasthali Vidyapith, Department of Pharmacy, Rajasthan, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Rishikesh 249203, India.

Despite advancements in antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory treatments, 
inflammation and its repercussions continue to pose a considerable challenge in 
medicine. Acute inflammation may cause life-threatening conditions like septic 
shock, while chronic inflammation leads to tissue degeneration and impaired 
function. Lipopolysaccharides (LPS), a well-known pathogenic trigger 
contributing to several dysfunctions, is a crucial part of the outer membrane of 
gr-negative bacteria. LPS are well-known for eliciting acute inflammatory 
responses by activating a pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP), which 
stimulates the innate immune system and triggers local or systemic inflammatory 
responses. LPS also activate numerous intracellular molecules that modulate the 
expression of a wide range of inflammatory mediators. These mediators 
subsequently initiate or exacerbate various inflammatory processes. Beyond 
immune cells, LPS can also activate non-immune cells, leading to inflammatory 
reactions. These excessive inflammatory responses are often detrimental and 
typically result in chronic and progressive inflammatory diseases, including 
neurodegenerative, cardiovascular diseases, and cancer. This review delves into 
the mechanisms by which the bacterial endotoxin LPS contribute to multiple 
inflammatory diseases. These insights into LPS signaling pathways could inform 
the design of new treatment strategies such as TLR4, NLRP3, HMGA1, MAPK, and 
NF-kB inhibitors. This enables precise targeting of inflammation-related 
processes in disease management.

© 2025. This work is openly licensed via CC BY 4.0.

DOI: 10.22038/ijbms.2025.82302.17799
PMCID: PMC12258786
PMID: 40666174

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


26. Front Public Health. 2025 Jul 1;13:1585711. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1585711. 
eCollection 2025.

Global Burden of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias in adults aged 65 years 
and older, 1991-2021: population-based study.

Xiaopeng Z(#)(1), Jing Y(#)(1), Xia L(1), Xingsheng W(1), Juan D(1), Yan L(1), 
Baoshan L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Chongqing University Central Hospital/Chongqing 
Emergency Medical Center, Chongqing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to analyze the prevalence, impact, and disparities 
of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias (ADRD) among adults aged 65 years and 
older worldwide, across different regions and countries, spanning the years 
1991-2021.
METHODS: GBD 2021 obtained data on dementia from vital registration systems, 
published scientific literature and surveys, and data from health-service 
encounters on deaths, excess mortality, prevalence, and incidence from 1991 to 
2021, through systematic review and additional data-seeking efforts. Individuals 
aged ≥65 years from 21 regions and 204 countries and territories (Global Burden 
of Disease and Risk Factors Study 2021) from 1991 to 2021 were analyzed. Primary 
outcomes were ADRD related to aged ≥65 years age-standardized prevalence, 
deaths, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), and average annual percentage 
change (AAPC), and the fractions of these metrics that were attributable to 
three risk factors (high BMI, high fasting glucose, and smoking) that met GBD.
RESULTS: The global mortality of ADRD among adults aged ≥65 years increased by 
115%, from 6.5 (95% UI 1.5-18) per 100,000 population in 1991 to 14 (95% UI 
3.5-37) per 100,000 population in 2021, with an Average Annual Percentage Change 
(AAPC) of 1.10% (95%CI 0.45%-1.76%). The prevalence of ADRD in adults aged ≥65 
years increased by 160% between 1991 and 2021, from 18.7 (95%UI 14.9-23.2) 
million to 49 (95%UI 38.6-61.2) million. The aged ≥65 years age-standardized 
prevalence of ADRD in this age group increased from 11,977 (95%UI 9,438-14,935) 
per 100,000 population in 1991 to 12,124 (95%UI 9,489-15,204) per 100,000 
population in 2021. The aged ≥65 years the number of prevalent persons was more 
significant among females than among males (males: from 6.2 (95%UI 4.8-7.8) 
million in 1991 to 17.2 (95%UI 13.4-21.6) million in 2021; women: from 12.5 
(95%UI 10.0-15.4) million in 1991 to 31.7 (95%UI 25.1-39.6) million in 2021). In 
2021, ADRD in adults aged ≥65 years caused 8.02 (95%UI 1.34-22.19) million 
deaths and 25.38 (95%UI 23.18-71.20) million DALYs attributable to dementia, and 
high BMI, high fasting glucose, and smoking remained modifiable risk factors in 
all risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: From 1991 to 2021, the worldwide prevalence of Alzheimer's disease 
and other dementias among adults aged 65 and above has increased by 1.6 times, 
largely driven by the expanding older adults. This escalating trend poses 
significant challenges to the global healthcare system in terms of both 
mortality rates and disability-adjusted life years. We recommend that 
standardized screening programmes be promoted globally, especially in high-risk 
areas and among high-risk populations, for early detection and intervention of 
the disease. Secondly, we recommend strengthening the management of risk factor 
elements.

Copyright © 2025 Xiaopeng, Jing, Xia, Xingsheng, Juan, Yan and Baoshan.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1585711
PMCID: PMC12261920
PMID: 40666154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


27. Front Aging. 2025 Jul 1;6:1520842. doi: 10.3389/fragi.2025.1520842.
eCollection  2025.

From frailty to resilience: exploring adaptive capacity and reserve in older 
adults-a narrative review.

Cosarderelioglu C(1), Walston JD(1), Abadir PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Division of Geriatric Medicine 
and Gerontology, Baltimore, MD, United States.

Resilience, the capacity to adapt and recover from adversity, plays a critical 
role in the health and wellbeing of older adults. In geriatric populations, 
resilience encompasses physical, cognitive, and psychosocial domains and is 
essential for maintaining functional independence and quality of life amidst the 
challenges of aging. This review explores the concept of resilience within 
geriatric medicine across physical, cognitive, and psychosocial domains, 
highlights the differences from frailty and reserve, underscores importance of 
stressors, summarizes key biomarkers that predict resilience, and evaluates 
interventions designed to enhance resilience in older adults.

Copyright © 2025 Cosarderelioglu, Walston and Abadir.

DOI: 10.3389/fragi.2025.1520842
PMCID: PMC12259552
PMID: 40665991

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


28. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul 15:13872877251360004. doi:
10.1177/13872877251360004.  Online ahead of print.

Exploring causal gut-brain axes in Alzheimer's disease using mediation Mendelian 
randomization analysis.

Ge L(1), Zhu L(1), Su C(1), Jin Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, The Second Hospital of Shandong 
University, Jinan, China.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative condition 
with unclear etiology. Recent studies suggest gut microbiota may be involved in 
AD pathogenesis through imbalances that increase intestinal permeability, affect 
blood-brain barrier function, and promote neuroinflammation. However, 
observational studies are susceptible to confounding biases and reverse 
causality.ObjectiveThis study aimed to explore causal relationships between gut 
microbiota, brain imaging-derived phenotypes (IDPs), and AD using mediation 
Mendelian randomization analysis to identify specific gut-brain axes involved in 
AD mechanisms.MethodsWe conducted a three-phase Mendelian randomization analysis 
using large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) data. Phase 1 analyzed 
causal effects of 412 gut microbiota on AD. Phase 2 examined causal effects of 
920 IDPs on AD. Phase 3 performed mediation analysis to understand the role of 
IDPs in the gut microbiota-AD pathway. Data sources included Dutch population 
study (7738 individuals), MiBioGen consortium (18,340 individuals), UK Biobank 
brain imaging (8428 samples), and AD GWAS dataset (487,511 participants). 
Inverse variance weighted method was the primary analysis approach.ResultsWe 
identified 12 gut microbiota metabolic pathways and 32 gut microbiota species 
causally related to AD, plus 29 IDPs with potential causal relationships to AD. 
Mediation analysis revealed four distinct gut-brain axes: genus 
Butyrivibrio-brain stem-AD, genus Lachnospiraceae-brain stem-AD, 
PEPTIDOGLYCANSYN pathway-L1 External capsule Left-AD, and TCA cycle pathway-L1 
External capsule Left-AD.ConclusionsThis study identified four specific gut 
microbiota-brain structure axes causally involved in AD mechanisms, providing 
novel insights for understanding the gut-brain axis role in AD pathogenesis and 
potential therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251360004
PMID: 40665707


29. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul 15:13872877251359638. doi:
10.1177/13872877251359638.  Online ahead of print.

Brain amyloid-β deposition, severity of subjective cognitive decline and gait 
speed in cognitively unimpaired oldest-old.

Nadkarni NK(1)(2), Perera S(1)(3), Snitz BE(2), Lopresti BJ(4), Gogniat MA(2), 
Villemagne VL(5), Lopez OL(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatric Medicine, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

BackgroundGait speed slows prior to cognitive decline in clinical Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), and is associated with cognitive performance and biomarkers of 
amyloid-β (Aβ) pathology in cognitively unimpaired (CU) older adults. However, 
the influence of subjective cognitive decline (SCD) severity on the association 
between Aβ and gait speed is not known.ObjectiveWe examined the relationship 
among gait speed, SCD severity and Aβ deposition in CU older adults.MethodsGait 
speed was measured over 15-feet. Aβ deposition was quantified using Pittsburgh-B 
(PiB) PET, expressed in Centiloid units (CL). Severity of SCD was quantified on 
the Memory Functioning Questionnaire (MFQ) on measures of seriousness and 
frequency of forgetting, mnemonic usage and retrospective functioning. We fitted 
a series of linear models with gait speed as the dependent variable; and each 
dichotomized sub-scale of the MFQ and Aβ as independent variables, adjusting for 
depression, white matter hyperintensity volume and executive function.ResultsIn 
58 CU individuals (mean age 85, 35% female), mean gait speed was 0.91 m/s and Aβ 
deposition was 36 CL. The relationship between slower gait and greater Aβ 
deposition showed a stronger association in those with more frequent mnemonic 
use (r = -0.36, p = 0.05) and with greater seriousness of forgetting (r = -0.33, 
p = 0.08) compared to those with lesser severity of subjective cognitive 
concerns (r = 0.02, p = 0.9 and r = -0.08, p = 0.7 respectively).ConclusionsThe 
findings indicate that in those with greater severity of SCD, association 
between slower gait and greater Aβ deposition is stronger, warranting 
longitudinal assessments of SCD severity and gait changes in preclinical AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251359638
PMID: 40665692


30. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1002/acn3.70143. Online ahead of
 print.

Cognitive Resilience in Apolipoprotein ε4 Carrier Women Predicted by 
Neuron-Derived Extracellular Vesicles.

Manolopoulos A(1), Mustapic M(1), Nogueras-Ortiz C(1), Delgado-Peraza F(1), 
Pucha KA(1), Yao PJ(1), Blommer J(1), Vreones MP(1), York W(1), Knight DL(1), 
Rapp SR(2), Shadyab AH(3), Manson JE(4), Casanova R(5), Wallace RB(6), Ferrucci 
L(7), Resnick SM(8), Kapogiannis D(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Investigation, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Wake Forest University 
School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Herbert Wertheim School of Public Health and Human Longevity Science and 
Division of Geriatrics, Gerontology and Palliative Care, Department of Medicine, 
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Biostatistics and Data Sciences, Wake Forest University School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, University of Iowa, 
Iowa City, Iowa, USA.
(7)Longitudinal Studies Section, Intramural Research Program, National Institute 
on Aging, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(8)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The Apolipoprotein (APOE) ε4 allele is the strongest genetic risk 
factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, many ε4 carriers remain 
cognitively intact into old age. Leveraging plasma neuron-derived extracellular 
vesicles (NDEVs), we sought to identify biomarkers of cognitive resilience and 
their interplay with APOE genotype.
METHODS: In this case-control study nested within the Women's Health Initiative 
(WHI), we analyzed 1130 plasma samples from 676 women in the WHI Memory Study 
(WHIMS)/Long Life Study (LLS), with APOE ε4 or ε3/ε3 genotypes. At baseline, all 
participants were cognitively intact and at LLS visit, 13-17 years later, were 
classified as still cognitively intact (resilient) or having become impaired at 
age > 80 or ≤ 80 years. We isolated NDEVs using immunoaffinity capture for the 
neuronal marker L1CAM and quantified AD pathogenic proteins (Aβ42, total Tau, 
p181-Tau), insulin signaling (pSer312-IRS-1), TNFR1/NFκB pathway mediators and 
targets, and mitochondrial Complex V. Linear mixed models assessed group 
differences, adjusting for NDEV yield, age, and education, with FDR correction.
RESULTS: No group differences were found for Aβ42, Tau proteins, or pS312-IRS-1. 
Resilient ε4 carriers had higher baseline levels of phosphorylated TNFR1, NFκB, 
c-Myc, and FADD than ε4 carriers who eventually developed impairment at > 80 or 
≤ 80 years. Additionally, resilient ε4 carriers had higher baseline Complex V 
levels than ε4 carriers impaired at age > 80.
INTERPRETATION: Augmented neuronal TNFR1/NFκB signaling and Complex V levels may 
promote cognitive resilience in ε4 carrier women. Boosting these mechanisms may 
have preventive and therapeutic potential against cognitive decline in this 
high-risk population.

© 2025 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published 
by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association. This 
article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is 
in the public domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/acn3.70143
PMID: 40665589


31. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70409. doi: 10.1002/alz.70409.

Pittsburgh plasma p-tau217: Classification accuracies for autosomal dominant and 
sporadic Alzheimer's disease in the community.

Sehrawat A(1), Zeng X(1), Abrahamson EE(1)(2), Deek RA(3), Gogola A(4), Kamboh 
MI(5), Pascoal TA(1)(6), Villemagne VL(1), Lopez OL(6), Ikonomovic MD(1)(2)(6), 
Snitz BE(6), Cohen AD(1), Karikari TK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, VA Pittsburgh HS, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Health Data Science, School of Public Health, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(5)Department of Human Genetics, School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Most available phosphorylated tau (p-tau)217 immunoassays have 
similar performance. It is unclear if this is due to the use of the same 
antibody (the "ALZpath antibody"). We established and evaluated a novel p-tau217 
assay that uses an alternative antibody and benchmarked the results against 
ALZpath-p-tau217.
METHODS: After development and analytical validation of the University of 
Pittsburgh ("Pitt-p-tau217") method, clinical verification was performed in 
three independent cohorts (n = 363).
RESULTS: Pitt-p-tau217 demonstrated high between-run stability, linearity, and 
specificity. Clinically, Pitt-p-tau217 differentiated neuropathologically 
confirmed PSEN1 mutation carriers from controls with area under the curve 
(AUC) = 0.94, and amyloid beta (Aβ) positron emission tomography (PET)-positive 
from Aβ PET-negative cognitively normal older adults with AUC up to 0.84, 
equivalent to ALZpath-p-tau217 results. Both Pitt-p-tau217 and ALZpath-p-tau217 
were slightly elevated in tau PET-positive versus tau PET-negative participants. 
Between-assay correlations were up to 0.93.
DISCUSSION: The new Pitt-p-tau217 assay exhibits high and reproducible 
classification accuracies for identifying individuals with biological evidence 
of Alzheimer's disease, equivalent to the widely used ALZpath-p-tau217.
HIGHLIGHTS: We designed and developed an alternative assay to quantify plasma 
phosphorylated tau (p-tau)217, aiming to enhance accuracy and enable early 
detection of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Comprehensive analytical and clinical 
validation demonstrated that the new p-tau217 assay is a valuable and affordable 
resource for investigating AD pathophysiology. The new p-tau217 assay showed 
similar performance to the established ALZpath assay in staging and monitoring 
early AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70409
PMID: 40665482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70483. doi: 10.1002/alz.70483.

Alzheimer's disease and its co-pathologies: Implications for hippocampal 
degeneration, cognitive decline, and the role of APOE ε4.

Gawor K(1), Verrept S(1), Arekatla G(2), Wouters D(3), Ronisz A(1), Hecht M(4), 
Laureyssen C(5)(6), Donck HV(1), Lahaije B(1), Ospitalieri S(1), Vandenbulcke 
M(7), Otto M(8)(9), von Arnim CAF(8)(10), Ghebremedhin E(11), Hanseeuw B(12), 
Vandenberghe R(13)(14), Blaschko M(15), Sifrim A(3), Sleegers K(5)(6), Thal 
DR(1)(16), Tomé SO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Imaging and Pathology, Laboratory of Neuropathology, KU Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Laboratory of Neurobiology, KU Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, Laboratory of Multi-omic Integrative 
Bioinformatics, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Laboratory of Neuropathology, Institute of Pathology, Ulm University, Ulm, 
Germany.
(5)Complex Genetics of Alzheimer's Disease Group, VIB Center for Molecular 
Neurology, VIB, Antwerp, Belgium.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(7)Department of Neuroscience, Laboratory for Translational Neuropsychiatry, KU 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(8)Department of Neurology, Ulm University, Ulm, Germany.
(9)Department of Neurology, University of Halle, Halle, Germany.
(10)Department of Geriatrics, University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen, 
Germany.
(11)Institute of Anatomy, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany.
(12)Institute of Neuroscience, UCLouvain, Brussels, Belgium.
(13)Department of Neurology, UZ Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(14)Department of Neurosciences, Laboratory for Cognitive Neurology, KU Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(15)Department of Electrical Engineering, Processing Speech and Images, KU 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(16)Department of Pathology, UZ Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: In neurodegenerative dementias, the co-occurrence and interaction 
of amyloid β peptide (Aβ), tau pathology, and other pathological lesions 
confound their individual contributions to neurodegeneration and their 
modulation by risk factors.
METHODS: We analyzed 480 post mortem human brains (ages 50-99) using regression 
and structural equation models to assess the relationships among Aβ, tau, 
limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathological changes 
(LATE-NC), α-synuclein, other age-related lesions, and apolipoprotein E (APOE) 
ε4, as well as their effects on CA1 neuronal density, brain weight, and 
cognitive status.
RESULTS: Aβ, tau, LATE-NC, and amygdala-predominant α-synuclein pathology were 
mutually interdependent. Tau was the strongest predictor of global 
neurodegeneration, while LATE-NC primarily, but not exclusively, affected 
hippocampal neuron loss. Small vessel disease correlated with both LATE-NC and 
α-synuclein, while APOE ε4 was mainly associated with extracellular parenchymal 
and capillary Aβ pathology.
DISCUSSION: Although Alzheimer's disease pathology plays a central role in brain 
degeneration, coexisting pathologies can both exacerbate and independently 
contribute to it. These factors should be considered in patient stratification.
HIGHLIGHTS: In aging individuals, amyloid β peptide (Aβ), tau pathology, 
limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathological changes 
(LATE-NC), and amygdala-predominant α-synuclein pathology were interrelated but 
contributed independently to neurodegeneration. LATE-NC was the strongest driver 
of CA1 neuronal loss, while tau burden was the strongest predictor of global 
brain degeneration. Apolipoprotein E ε4 was associated with both extracellular 
and capillary Aβ deposits, but not with tau burden. Temporal lobe small vessel 
disease was associated with both LATE-NC and amygdala-predominant α-synuclein 
pathology. Neural network models can reliably identify hippocampal pyramidal 
neurons on hematoxylin-stained histological slides.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70483
PMID: 40665478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70464. doi: 10.1002/alz.70464.

Focused ultrasound-mediated APOE4 knockdown in mouse brain.

Zheng K(1), Tsitsos FN(1), Batts AJ(1), Ji R(1), Nuriel T(2)(3), Konofagou 
EE(1)(4), Leong KW(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, New 
York, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, New York, USA.
(3)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New 
York, USA.
(5)Department of Systems Biology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, 
New York, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 allele is widely recognized as the 
strongest genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease. Therapeutic 
strategies to reduce apoE4 expression in APOE ε4 carriers hold promise to 
mitigate neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative processes driving disease 
progression.
METHODS: Focused ultrasound (FUS) was employed to transiently open the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) for efficient knockdown of humanized APOE ε4 in the 
mouse brain via gene editing. The all-in-one clustered regularly interspaced 
short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-based adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors 
were administered intravenously at a dose of 1.5×1012 vg per mouse to determine 
the gene-editing efficacy within the hippocampus.
RESULTS: FUS-enhanced delivery of AAV resulted in a 12.6% knockdown of APOE ε4 
gene expression in the targeted hippocampus, accompanied by an over 20% decrease 
in apoE4 protein levels and significant reductions in astrocyte and microglia 
levels.
DISCUSSION: Our findings demonstrate a noninvasive, targeted approach for APOE 
ε4 knockdown, highlighting FUS-mediated brain-directed interventions as a 
promising therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's disease.
HIGHLIGHTS: Focused ultrasound (FUS) enables noninvasive, transient blood-brain 
barrier (BBB) opening for enhanced adeno-associated virus (AAV) delivery. 
FUS-mediated gene editing achieves a 12.6% knockdown in APOE ε4 expression 
within the hippocampus of mouse brain. APOE ε4 knockdown significantly reduces 
apoE4 protein levels and astrocyte and microglia levels. No detectable gross 
toxicity was observed following the FUS-mediated gene editing.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70464
PMID: 40665471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 15;17(1):160. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01804-9.

Combinatorial targeting of NMDARs and 5-HT(4)Rs exerts beneficial effects in a 
mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Chen BK(#)(1)(2), Hunsberger HC(#)(2)(3)(4), Whye A(3)(5), Matthews LC(3)(6), 
Yook A(3), Willner MJ(1)(2)(7), Logan RW(8), Johns S(9), Weisblum E(9), Denny 
CA(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Doctoral Program in Neurobiology and Behavior (NB&B), Columbia University, 
New York, NY, 10027, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), 
NYSPI Kolb Research Annex, 1051 Riverside Drive, Unit 87, New York, NY, 10032, 
USA.
(3)Division of Systems Neuroscience, Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, 
Inc. (RFMH)/New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI), New York, NY, 10032, 
USA.
(4)Present address: Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases and Therapeutics, 
Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science / Foundational Sciences and 
Humanities, The Chicago Medical School, North Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Present address: Weil Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Present address: University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(7)Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP), Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center (CUIMC), New York, NY, 10032, USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Massachusetts 
Chan Medical School, Worcester, MA, 01605, USA.
(9)Silo Pharma, Sarasota, FL, 34236, USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), 
NYSPI Kolb Research Annex, 1051 Riverside Drive, Unit 87, New York, NY, 10032, 
USA. cad2125@cumc.columbia.edu.
(11)Division of Systems Neuroscience, Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, 
Inc. (RFMH)/New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI), New York, NY, 10032, 
USA. cad2125@cumc.columbia.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia. There are 
limited approved medications that delay cognitive decline or lessen 
neuropsychiatric symptoms. Numerous clinical trials for AD using a single drug 
administration have failed to meet therapeutic endpoints, which is most likely 
due to the complexity of AD. A multimodal therapeutic intervention is more 
likely to improve symptoms by targeting multiple targets implicated in AD. Here, 
we investigated if targeting both N-Methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors (NMDARs) 
and serotonin type 4 receptors (5-HT4R) may have beneficial effects in a mouse 
model of AD, as they have separately been shown to improve cognition and/or 
mood.
METHODS: Male and female control (Ctrl) or APP/PS1 mice were administered 
single, intermittent, or chronic administration of 1) saline; 2) (R,S)-ketamine, 
an NMDAR antagonist; 3) prucalopride, a 5-HT4R agonist; or 4) 
(R,S)-ketamine + prucalopride to simultaneously target co-morbid 
neuropsychiatric and cognitive deficits. Behavioral assays were then 
administered to measure cognition, perseverative behavior, hyponeophagia, and/or 
sleep. Brains were processed for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) 
immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Single and chronic administration of (R,S)-ketamine + prucalopride 
administration improved cognitive decline by increasing memory retrieval in a 
contextual fear conditioning (CFC) paradigm in APP/PS1 mice. Drug efficacy was 
less effective in females than in males and was age dependent. Hippocampal GFAP 
immunoreactivity was decreased by chronic (R,S)-ketamine + prucalopride 
treatment in females.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that combined administration of 
(R,S)-ketamine + prucalopride is a novel multimodal therapeutic strategy to 
treat cognitive decline in AD. Future work will further characterize these 
interactions with the goal of clinical development.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01804-9
PMID: 40665449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All procedures were conducted in accordance with the National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) regulations and by the Institutional Animal Care and 
Use Committees (IACUCs) of Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) and 
the Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, Inc. (RFMH) at the New York State 
Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI). Competing interests: BKC, HCH, and CAD are named 
on provisional patent applications for the prophylactic use of (R,S)-ketamine, 
5-HT4R agonists, and other compounds against stress-related psychiatric 
disorders and Alzheimer’s disease. SJ is employed by Silo Pharma, and EW is 
founder and Chief Executive Officer of Silo Pharma. AW, LCM, AY, MJW, and RL 
have no conflicts of interest to disclose.


35. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 15;17(1):159. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01808-5.

Cardiovascular risk factors are associated with lower posterior-medial network 
functional connectivity in older adults.

Chauveau L(1), Gonneaud J(#)(1), Poisnel G(#)(1), Landeau B(1), Garnier-Crussard 
A(1)(2), Pitel AL(1)(3), Roquet D(1), Touron E(1), Haudry S(1), Mezenge F(1), 
Chocat A(1), Vivien D(4), de La Sayette V(5), Chételat G(1), de Flores R(6); 
Medit-Ageing Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Normandy University, UNICAEN, INSERM, U1237, PhIND "Physiopathology and 
Imaging of Neurological Disorders", Neuropresage Team; GIP Cyceron, Bd Henri 
Becquerel, BP 5229, Caen, 14074, France.
(2)Clinical and Research Memory Centre of Lyon, Department of Geriatric 
Medicine, Lyon Institute for Aging, Clinical Research Center 
Ageing-Brain-Frailty, Charpennes Hospital, University Claude Bernard Lyon 1, 
Hospices Civils de Lyon, 3 Quai des Célestins, Lyon, 69002, France.
(3)Institut Universitaire de France (IUF), Paris, 75231, France.
(4)PhIND Physiopathology and Imaging of Neurological Disorders, Normandy 
University, UNICAEN, INSERM, U1237, Institut Blood and Brain @ Caen-Normandie 
(BB@C), GIP Cyceron, Bd Henri Becquerel, BP 5229, Caen, 14074, France.
(5)Service de Neurologie, CHU de Caen, Av. de la Côte de Nacre CS 30001, Caen, 
14033, France.
(6)Normandy University, UNICAEN, INSERM, U1237, PhIND "Physiopathology and 
Imaging of Neurological Disorders", Neuropresage Team; GIP Cyceron, Bd Henri 
Becquerel, BP 5229, Caen, 14074, France. deflores@cyceron.fr.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Cortico-hippocampal functional networks, specifically the 
anterior-temporal (AT) and posterior-medial (PM) systems, are crucial for memory 
and highly vulnerable to aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD). While modifiable 
cardiovascular risk factors may offer prevention opportunities to preserve brain 
aging, their effects on AT/PM functional connectivity remain unknown. This study 
aims to investigate these associations in older adults, considering major risk 
categories and exploring potential interactions with protective lifestyle habits 
and AD risk factors.
METHODS: One hundred thirty-one community-dwelling cognitively unimpaired adults 
aged 65 + were selected from the Age-Well trial, a French monocentric 
population-based study conducted from 2016 to 2020. Resting-state fMRI and 
cardiovascular risk assessments were performed at baseline and 18-month 
follow-up. Functional connectivity within the AT and PM networks was derived 
from seed-based analyses using the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices as 
individual seeds, respectively. Generalized additive and linear mixed models 
assessed the effects of cardiovascular risk factors on AT/PM functional 
connectivity, including interactions with protective lifestyle habits and AD 
risk factors.
RESULTS: Baseline mean age was 69 (65-84) years, with 63.5% women. Higher 
abdominal fat (95% CI: -0.00118, -0.00005; F = 5.39; P =.02), higher LDL 
cholesterol (95% CI: -0.01642, -0.00345; F = 10.40; P =.001), longer smoking 
duration (95% CI: NA; F = 3.89; P =.03) and greater alcohol consumption (95% CI: 
-0.01134, -0.00045; F = 4.66; P =.02) were consistently associated with lower PM 
connectivity, collectively explaining 11.4% of the variance. However, only LDL 
cholesterol survived multiple comparisons, possibly reflecting a more direct 
involvement in cardiovascular mechanisms affecting functional connectivity. No 
association was found with AT connectivity. Exploratory analyses showed that 
these relationships were independent of cerebral Aβ-positivity or APOE-ε4 
carrier status and were unaffected by physical activity and Mediterranean diet 
when considered separately.
DISCUSSION: This study highlights converging associations between higher 
cardiovascular risk factors and lower functional connectivity in cognitively 
unimpaired older adults, specifically affecting the PM-but not AT-network, and 
independent of AD risk. Targeting these specific modifiable factors may prevent 
age-related network alterations to promote cognitive health in aging.
TRIAL REGISTRATION INFORMATION: The Age-Well trial was registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov on November 25, 2016 (identifier: NCT02977819).

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01808-5
PMID: 40665410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All participants provided written informed consent prior to 
participation. The Age-Well trial was approved by the Nord Ouest III ethics 
committee (Caen, France) and sponsored by the Institut National de la Santé et 
de la Recherche Médicale (Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT02977819; trial 
registration number: EudraCT: 2016–002441-36; IDRCB: 2016-A01767-44; 
registration date: 2016–11–25). Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


36. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 15;17(1):162. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01814-7.

Dual risk of anticholinergic burden and CSF alzheimer's biomarkers in older 
patients: a mortality follow-up study from daily medical practice.

Decaix T(1)(2)(3), Dumurgier J(4)(5), Cognat E(6)(4), Götze K(6)(7), 
Mouton-Liger F(6), Hugon J(6)(4), Bouaziz-Amar E(6)(8), Lilamand M(9)(6), Paquet 
C(6)(4).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Department, Fernand Widal Lariboisière University Hospital, GHU 
APHP.Nord, 200 rue du Faubourg Saint-Denis, Paris, 75010, France. 
theodore.decaix@aphp.fr.
(2)Paris-Cité University, Inserm U1144, Paris, France. theodore.decaix@aphp.fr.
(3)Théodore Decaix. Hôpital de jour Cognition/Motricité, Hôpital Fernand Widal, 
200 rue du Faubourg Saint-Denis, Paris, 75010, France. theodore.decaix@aphp.fr.
(4)Cognitive Neurology Center, Fernand Widal Lariboisière University Hospital, 
GHU APHP.Nord, Paris, France.
(5)Paris-Cité University, Inserm U1153, Paris, France.
(6)Paris-Cité University, Inserm U1144, Paris, France.
(7)Geriatrics Department, Bichat University Hospital, GHU AP-HP.Nord, Paris, 
France.
(8)Biochemistry Department, Fernand Widal Lariboisière University Hospital, GHU 
APHP.Nord, 2 rue Ambroise Paré, Paris, Paris, 75010, France.
(9)Geriatrics Department, Fernand Widal Lariboisière University Hospital, GHU 
APHP.Nord, 200 rue du Faubourg Saint-Denis, Paris, 75010, France.

BACKGROUND: Anticholinergic medications are widely prescribed to older adults 
and are linked to increased mortality and cognitive decline. Cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-amyloid and tau-are strong 
prognostic indicators in neurocognitive disorders (NCD). However, it remains 
unclear whether anticholinergic burden amplifies mortality risk depending on CSF 
biomarker profiles in cognitively impaired individuals.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective monocentric study of 927 patients 
aged ≥ 65 years with mild or major NCD from a tertiary memory clinic in Paris, 
France. Participants underwent CSF biomarker assessment for amyloid (A), 
phosphorylated tau (T), and total tau (N), and were classified into ATN 
profiles. Anticholinergic burden was evaluated at baseline using the 
Anticholinergic Cognitive Burden (ACB) scale: none (ACB = 0), low-moderate 
(ACB = 1-2), or high (ACB ≥ 3). The primary outcome was all-cause mortality. 
Proportional hazards regression assessed associations between ACB, ATN profiles, 
and mortality, adjusting for demographic, clinical, and genetic covariates.
RESULTS: High ACB was associated with increased mortality in model 1 (HR = 1.30, 
95% CI: 1.03-1.64, p = 0.02), but not after full adjustment (HR = 1.26, 95% CI: 
0.96-1.66, p = 0.09). ATN profiles remained strong independent predictors of 
mortality, with highest risks for A-T-N + and A + T + Nx profiles. Combined high 
ACB and abnormal biomarkers conferred greater risk than either alone (e.g., 
HR = 2.24 for A + T + Nx and high ACB).
CONCLUSION: Anticholinergic burden may increase vulnerability to mortality in 
older adults with an AD biomarker profile. These results support integrating 
pharmacological and biological risk factors into personalized dementia care.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01814-7
PMID: 40665403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All participants received both oral and written information 
regarding the opportunity to provide additional blood and CSF samples for 
further research, as outlined in the BioCogBank© protocol. Additionally, all 
participants consented to the anonymous use of their clinical data and the 
results of their CSF analyses. The study was approved by the local Ethics 
Committee (Comité d’Évaluation et d’Éthique pour la Recherche Paris Nord, 
Institutional Review Board 00006477, ref 16 − 004) and the Commission Nationale 
Informatique et Libertés. This study was conducted in accordance with the 
principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Consent for publication: not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


37. J Neuroinflammation. 2025 Jul 15;22(1):183. doi: 10.1186/s12974-025-03501-8.

Ethanol consumption aggravates amyloid pathology and neuroinflammation in 
Alzheimer's disease associated with inflammasome activation and ASC speck 
propagation.

Brezani V(1), Joshi RS(1), Ortega-Ribera M(1), Nagesh PT(1), Brezani V(1), Zivny 
A(1), Kurt-Jones EA(2), Golenbock DT(2), Szabo G(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. gszabo1@bidmc.harvard.edu.
(4)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA. 
gszabo1@bidmc.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND: Alcohol use disorder (AUD) has been associated with Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and dementia, yet the underlying mechanisms and specific role of 
ethanol in AD progression remain poorly understood. Neuroinflammation has 
emerged as a key contributor to both AD pathogenesis and ethanol-induced brain 
damage. Activation of innate immune cells and signaling pathways, in particular 
NLRP3 inflammasome, plays a pivotal role in both AD and ethanol-induced 
inflammation. Thus, we postulated that excessive ethanol consumption could 
contribute to AD progression via amplified neuroinflammation.
METHODS: The 12-15-month-old WT and APP/PS1 mice received water or ethanol (3.5 
g/kg) binge every alternate day for a period of one month. The effects of 
ethanol on amyloid pathology, microglia and astrocyte activation, and NLRP3 
inflammasome activation were evaluated in the mouse brains. The effect of 
ethanol and amyloid β on NLRP3 inflammasome signaling was further studied in 
primary glial cells.
RESULTS: In this study, we show that repeated ethanol binges aggravate the 
amyloid pathology and plaque burden in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice. 
Furthermore, we demonstrate the additive effect of ethanol administration on 
NLRP3 inflammasome activation, IL-1β release, and ASC aggregation in the brains 
of APP/PS1 mice and primary glia cultures. Our study also reveals a strong 
astrocyte activation by ethanol in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice as 
demonstrated by significantly increased GFAP and ALDH1L1 protein levels. Further 
in vitro analysis revealed that ethanol potentiates the effect of amyloid β to 
increase the NLRP3 inflammasome activation in both primary astrocytes and 
microglia. Lastly, we demonstrate that glia-produced ASC specks induce IL-1β in 
microglia and astrocytes and induce ROS in SH-SY5Y neurons, contributing to 
sustained neuroinflammation in AD.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, our results demonstrate that ethanol consumption 
exacerbates features of AD pathology associated with amplified neuroinflammation 
and NLRP3/ASC inflammasome activation, which may play an important role in the 
disease progression and severity.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-025-03501-8
PMID: 40665351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All the mice breeding, experimental protocols, and euthanasia were 
conducted as per the institutional ethics and Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee (IACUC) approved protocols No. 019–2019, 030–2022, and 051–2024. 
Competing interests: G.S. is scientific consultant for Cyta Therapeutics, 
Durect, Evive, Pandion Therapeutics, Pfizer, Surrozen, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Novo Nordisk, Resolution therapeutics and also holds equity in Glympse Bio, 
Zomagen and Satellite Bio. She received royalties from UptoDate and Springer. 
The remaining authors have no competing interests to report.


38. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05162-3. Online ahead of 
print.

Multiple Mechanisms and Therapeutic Strategies for the Involvement of AMPK in 
the Development of Alzheimer's Disease.

Yu L(1), Yang X(1), Lei HP(1), Hu YT(1), Wu LN(1), Zhou SY(2), Jin F(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Basic Pharmacology of Ministry of Education and Joint 
International Research Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education, 
Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, Guizhou Province, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Basic Pharmacology of Ministry of Education and Joint 
International Research Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education, 
Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, Guizhou Province, China. szhou@zmu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Basic Pharmacology of Ministry of Education and Joint 
International Research Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education, 
Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, Guizhou Province, China. 
jinfeng1115@zmu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major cause of dementia, a life-threatening 
condition for which there is currently no cure. Currently, the treatment of AD 
focuses on reducing the accumulation of amyloid β-protein (Aβ) and the 
phosphorylation of Tau proteins (Tau). However, simply reducing pathological 
features does not completely improve AD. Therefore, there is an urgent need to 
explore a target that regulates AD-related pathologies and highlights its 
potential as a novel therapeutic target. Recent studies suggest that oxidative 
stress, neuroinflammation, autophagy dysfunction, and energy metabolism 
alterations are associated with the development of AD. Reviewing previous data, 
we found that AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) not only acts as a cellular 
energy sensor to influence the progression of AD, but also activation of AMPK 
affects the pathologic processes above. In this review, we provide an update on 
activating the AMPK pathway with targeting in AD therapy. Finally, research has 
shown that compounds can activate the AMPK pathway to affect a series of 
cellular processes and improve AD. We propose that AMPK activation represents a 
paradigm-shifting strategy for AD therapy by simultaneously targeting multiple 
pathological cascades, although challenges in isoform-specific activation and 
brain delivery warrant further investigation.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05162-3
PMID: 40665063

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


39. Nat Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03833-1. Online ahead of print.

Shared and disease-specific pathways in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's 
and Parkinson's diseases.

Ali M(#)(1)(2), Erabadda B(#)(3), Chen Y(1)(2), Xu Y(1)(2), Gong K(1)(2), Liu 
M(1)(2), Pichet Binette A(4), Timsina J(1)(2), Western D(1)(2), Yang C(1)(2), 
Heo G(1)(2), Vogel JW(5), Tijms BM(6)(7), Krish V(8), Imam F(8); Global 
Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium (GNPC); Hansson O(4)(9), Winchester 
L(#)(3), Cruchaga C(#)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(2)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(4)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(5)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, SciLifeLab, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.
(6)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Gates Ventures, Seattle, WA, USA.
(9)Eli Lilly, Stockholm, Sweden.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA. cruchagac@wustl.edu.
(11)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. cruchagac@wustl.edu.
(12)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA. cruchagac@wustl.edu.
(13)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University, St. Louis, 
MO, USA. cruchagac@wustl.edu.
(14)Department of Genetics, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA. cruchagac@wustl.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD), exhibit distinct yet overlapping 
pathological mechanisms. Leveraging large-scale plasma proteomics data from the 
Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium, we analyzed 10,527 plasma 
samples (1,936 AD, 525 PD, 163 FTD, 1,638 dementia and 6,265 controls) to 
identify disease-specific and shared proteins across NDs. We identified 5,187 
proteins significantly associated with AD, 3,748 with PD and 2,380 with FTD that 
revealed both common and divergent proteomic signatures, which were confirmed by 
multiple analytical approaches and orthogonal validation. PD and FTD showed the 
highest overlap (r2 = 0.44) and AD and PD the least (r2 = 0.04). Immune system, 
glycolysis, and matrisome-related pathways were enriched across all NDs, while 
disease-specific pathways included apoptotic processes in AD, endoplasmic 
reticulum-phagosome impairment in PD and platelet dysregulation in FTD. Network 
analysis identified key upstream regulators (RPS27A in AD, IRAK4 in PD and MAPK1 
in FTD) potentially driving these proteomic changes. These findings reveal 
distinct and shared mechanisms across NDs, highlighting potential regulatory 
proteins and pathways for diagnostic and therapeutic strategies in 
neurodegeneration.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03833-1
PMID: 40665052

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: C.C. has received research 
support from GlaxoSmithKline and EISAI. C.C. is a member of the scientific 
advisory board of Circular Genomics and owns stocks. C.C. is a member of the 
scientific advisory board of ADmit. There is an invention disclosure for the 
prediction models, including protein IDs, alternative proteins and weights, 
cutoff and algorithms. O.H. is an employee of Eli Lilly and Lund University. 
M.A., B.E., Y.C., Y.X., K.G., M.L., A.P.B., J.T., D.W., C.Y., G.H., J.W.V., 
B.M.T., V.K., F.I. and L.W. declare no competing interests.


40. Nat Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03831-3. Online ahead of print.

Disruption of the cerebrospinal fluid-plasma protein balance in cognitive 
impairment and aging.

Farinas A(1)(2)(3), Rutledge J(2)(3), Bot VA(2)(3)(4), Western D(5)(6)(7), Ying 
K(2)(3)(8)(9), Lawrence KA(10), Oh HS(2)(3)(11)(12)(13)(14), Yoon S(2)(3), Ding 
DY(2)(3), Tsai AP(2)(3), Moran-Losada P(2)(3), Timsina J(5)(6), Le Guen Y(15); 
Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium (GNPC); Montgomery 
SB(10)(16)(17), Baker D(8)(9)(18), Poston KL(2)(3)(19), Wagner AD(3)(20), 
Mormino E(19), Cruchaga C(5)(6)(21)(22)(23)(24), Wyss-Coray T(25)(26)(27).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(2)The Phil and Penny Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(3)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(4)Graduate Program in Biomedical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(6)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(7)Division of Biology and Biomedical Sciences, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(9)Institute for Protein Design, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(10)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(11)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(12)Brain and Body Research Center of the Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School 
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(13)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(14)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(15)Quantitative Services Unit, Department of Medicine, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(16)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(17)Department of Biomedical Data Science, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(18)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(20)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(21)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(22)Department of Genetics, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.
(23)Hope Center for Neurologic Diseases, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, 
USA.
(24)Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(25)The Phil and Penny Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA. twc@stanford.edu.
(26)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA. 
twc@stanford.edu.
(27)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA. twc@stanford.edu.

The brain barrier system, including the choroid plexus, meninges and brain 
vasculature, regulates substrate transport and maintains differential protein 
concentrations between blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Aging and 
neurodegeneration disrupt brain barrier function, but proteomic studies of the 
effects on blood-CSF protein balance are limited. Here we used SomaScan 
proteomics to characterize paired CSF and plasma samples from 2,171 healthy or 
cognitively impaired older individuals from multiple cohorts, including the 
Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium. We identified proteins with 
correlated CSF and plasma levels that are produced primarily outside the brain 
and are enriched for structural domains that may enable their transport across 
brain barriers. CSF to plasma ratios of 848 proteins increased with aging in 
healthy control individuals, including complement and coagulation proteins, 
chemokines and proteins linked to neurodegeneration, whereas 64 protein ratios 
decreased with age, suggesting substrate-specific barrier regulation. Notably, 
elevated CSF to plasma ratios of peripherally derived or vascular-associated 
proteins, including DCUN1D1, MFGE8 and VEGFA, were associated with preserved 
cognitive function. Genome-wide association studies identified genetic loci 
associated with CSF to plasma ratios of 241 proteins, many of which have known 
disease associations, including FCN2, the collagen-like domain of which may 
facilitate blood-CSF transport. Overall, this work provides molecular insight 
into the human brain barrier system and its disruption with age and disease, 
with implications for the development of brain-permeable therapeutics.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03831-3
PMID: 40665050

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: T.W.-C., J.R. and H.S.O. 
are co-founders and scientific advisors of Teal Omics Inc. and have received 
equity stakes. T.W.-C. is a co-founder and scientific advisor of Alkahest Inc. 
and Qinotto Inc. and has received equity stakes in these companies. C.C. has 
received research support from GSK and EISAI. C.C. is a member of the scientific 
advisory board of Circular Genomics and owns stock and a member of the 
Scientific Advisory Board of ADmit. K.L.P. is on the Scientific Advisory Board 
for Amprion and is a consultant for Novartis, Biohaven, Curasen and Neuron23, 
where she receives consulting fees. S.B.M. is an advisor to MyOme, PhiTech and 
Valinor Discovery. The remaining authors declare no competing interests.


41. Nat Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03835-z. Online ahead of print.

APOE ε4 carriers share immune-related proteomic changes across neurodegenerative 
diseases.

Shvetcov A(1)(2), Johnson ECB(3)(4), Winchester LM(5), Walker KA(6), Wilkins 
HM(7)(8)(9), Thompson TG(10), Rothstein JD(11)(12), Krish V(13), Imam FB(13); 
Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium (GNPC); Burns JM(7)(8), Swerdlow 
RH(7)(8)(9)(14), Slawson C(7)(9)(15), Finney CA(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Neurodegeneration and Disease Modelling Research Group, Westmead Institute 
for Medical Research, The University of Sydney, Westmead, New South Wales, 
Australia. artur.shvetcov@wimr.org.au.
(2)School of Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. artur.shvetcov@wimr.org.au.
(3)Department of Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Goizueta Alzheimer's Disease Research Centre, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(6)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, 
Intramural Research Program, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(7)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Centre, University of 
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, University of Kansas School of Medicine, Kansas 
City, KS, USA.
(9)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(10)OnPoint Scientific, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA.
(11)Brain Science Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(12)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(13)Gates Ventures, Seattle, WA, USA.
(14)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(15)University of Kansas Cancer Center, University of Kansas Medical Center, 
Kansas City, KS, USA.
(16)Neurodegeneration and Disease Modelling Research Group, Westmead Institute 
for Medical Research, The University of Sydney, Westmead, New South Wales, 
Australia. caitlin.finney@wimr.org.au.
(17)School of Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University 
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. caitlin.finney@wimr.org.au.

The APOE ε4 genetic variant is the strongest genetic risk factor for late-onset 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is increasingly being implicated in other 
neurodegenerative diseases. Using the Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics 
Consortium SomaScan dataset covering 1,346 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and 9,924 
plasma samples, we used machine learning-based proteome profiling to identify an 
APOE ε4 proteomic signature shared across individuals with AD, frontotemporal 
dementia (FTD), Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD), Parkinson's disease (PD), 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and nonimpaired controls. This signature was 
enriched in pro-inflammatory immune and infection pathways as well as immune 
cells, including monocytes, T cells and natural killer cells. Analysis of the 
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex proteome for 262 donors from the Accelerating 
Medicines Partnership for AD UPenn Proteomics Study revealed a consistent APOE 
ε4 phenotype, independent of neurodegenerative pathology, including amyloid-β 
tau and gliosis for all diseases, as well as TDP-43 in ALS and FTD cases, and 
α-synuclein in PD and PDD cases. While systemic proteomic changes were 
consistent across APOE ε4 carriers, their relationship with clinical and 
lifestyle factors, such as hypertension and smoking, varied by disease. These 
findings suggest APOE ε4 confers a systemic biological vulnerability that is 
necessary but not sufficient for neurodegeneration, emphasizing the need to 
consider gene-environment interactions. Overall, our study reveals a conserved 
APOE ε4-associated pro-inflammatory immune signature persistent across the 
brain, CSF and plasma irrespective of neurodegenerative disease, highlighting a 
fundamental, disease-independent biological vulnerability to neurodegeneration. 
This work reframes APOE ε4 as a pleiotropic immune modulator rather than an 
AD-specific risk gene, providing a foundation for precision biomarker 
development and early intervention strategies across neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03835-z
PMID: 40665049

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


42. Nat Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03834-0. Online ahead of print.

The Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium: biomarker and drug target 
discovery for common neurodegenerative diseases and aging.

Imam F(1), Saloner R(2), Vogel JW(3), Krish V(4), Abdel-Azim G(5), Ali M(6)(7), 
An L(3), Anastasi F(8)(9)(10), Bennett D(11), Pichet Binette A(12)(13)(14), 
Boxer AL(2), Bringmann M(5), Burns JM(15)(16), Cruchaga C(6)(7)(17), Dage 
JL(18)(19), Farinas A(20)(21)(22), Ferrucci L(23), Finney CA(24)(25), Frasier 
M(26), Hansson O(12), Hohman TJ(27)(28), Johnson ECB(29)(30), Kivimaki 
M(31)(32), Korologou-Linden R(33), Ruiz Laza A(34)(35)(36), Levey AI(29)(30), 
Liepelt-Scarfone I(37)(38)(39), Lu L(12), Mattsson-Carlgren N(12)(40), Middleton 
LT(33), Nho K(41), Oh HS(21)(22)(42), Petersen RC(43), Reiman EM(44), Robinson 
O(33)(45), Rothstein JD(46), Saykin AJ(18)(19), Shvetcov A(24)(25), Slawson 
C(15)(47), Smets B(48), Suárez-Calvet M(8)(9)(49), Tijms BM(50)(51), Timmers 
M(48), Vieira F(52), Vilor-Tejedor N(8)(10)(53), Visser PJ(50)(51)(54), Walker 
KA(55), Winchester LM(56), Wyss-Coray T(21)(22)(57), Yang C(6)(7), Bose N(4), 
Lovestone S(58); Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium (GNPC).

Author information:
(1)Gates Ventures, Seattle, WA, USA. farhad.imam@gatesventures.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, SciLifeLab, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.
(4)Gates Ventures, Seattle, WA, USA.
(5)Johnson & Johnson, Spring House, PA, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(7)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(8)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Barcelona Institute of Science and 
Technology (BIST), Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(12)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(13)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Université de Montréal, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.
(14)Montreal Geriatrics Institute Research Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(15)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Kansas City, KS, 
USA.
(16)Department of Neurology, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
KS, USA.
(17)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(18)Indiana Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(20)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(21)The Phil and Penny Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(22)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(23)Translational Gerontology Branch, National Institute on Aging, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.
(24)Neurodegeneration and Precision Medicine Research Group, Westmead Institute 
for Medical Research, Westmead, New South Wales, Australia.
(25)Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney School of Medical 
Sciences, Westmead, New South Wales, Australia.
(26)Michael J. Fox Foundation, New York, NY, USA.
(27)Vanderbilt Memory & Alzheimer's Disease, Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(28)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN, 
USA.
(29)Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(30)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(31)UCL Brain Sciences, University College London, London, UK.
(32)University of Helsinki, Clinicum, Helsinki, Finland.
(33)Ageing & Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial 
College London, London, UK.
(34)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(35)Biomedical Research Networking Centre in Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), National Institute of Health Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(36)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases and 
Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Molecular Genetics, Long School of 
Medicine, The University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(37)Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, 
Tübingen, Germany.
(38)Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, German Center of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, Tübingen, Germany.
(39)IB Hochschule für Gesundheit und Soziales, Standort Stuttgart, Germany.
(40)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(41)Department of Radiology & Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(42)Mount Sinai, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(43)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(44)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(45)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, UK.
(46)Robert Packard Center for ALS Research, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
MD, USA.
(47)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(48)Johnson & Johnson, Beerse, Belgium.
(49)Department of Neurology, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(50)Department of Neurology, Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(51)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(52)ALS Therapy Development Institute, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(53)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands.
(54)Alzheimer Center Limburg, School for Mental Health and Neuroscience, 
Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(55)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, MD, USA.
(56)Department of Psychiatry, Oxford University, Oxford, UK.
(57)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Standford, CA, USA.
(58)Johnson & Johnson, London, UK.

More than 57 million people globally suffer from neurodegenerative diseases, a 
figure expected to double every 20 years. Despite this growing burden, there are 
currently no cures, and treatment options remain limited due to disease 
heterogeneity, prolonged preclinical and prodromal phases, poor understanding of 
disease mechanisms, and diagnostic challenges. Identifying novel biomarkers is 
crucial for improving early detection, prognosis, staging and subtyping of these 
conditions. High-dimensional molecular studies in biofluids ('omics') offer 
promise for scalable biomarker discovery, but challenges in assembling large, 
diverse datasets hinder progress. To address this, the Global Neurodegeneration 
Proteomics Consortium (GNPC)-a public-private partnership-established one of the 
world's largest harmonized proteomic datasets. It includes approximately 250 
million unique protein measurements from multiple platforms from more than 
35,000 biofluid samples (plasma, serum and cerebrospinal fluid) contributed by 
23 partners, alongside associated clinical data spanning Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS). This dataset is accessible to GNPC members via the 
Alzheimer's Disease Data Initiative's AD Workbench, a secure cloud-based 
environment, and will be available to the wider research community on 15 July 
2025. Here we present summary analyses of the plasma proteome revealing 
disease-specific differential protein abundance and transdiagnostic proteomic 
signatures of clinical severity. Furthermore, we describe a robust plasma 
proteomic signature of APOE ε4 carriership, reproducible across AD, PD, FTD and 
ALS, as well as distinct patterns of organ aging across these conditions. This 
work demonstrates the power of international collaboration, data sharing and 
open science to accelerate discovery in neurodegeneration research.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03834-0
PMID: 40665048

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: A.L.B. receives research 
support from the NIH, the Tau Research Consortium, the Association for 
Frontotemporal Degeneration, Bluefield Project to Cure Frontotemporal Dementia, 
the GHR Foundation and the Alzheimer’s Association. He has been a consultant for 
Alchemab, Alector, Alexion, Amylyx, Arrowhead, Arvinas, Eli Lilly, Muna, 
Neurocrine, Ono, Oscotec, Pfizer, Switch, Transposon and UnlearnAI. C.C. has 
received research support from GSK and Eisai. C.C. is a member of the scientific 
advisory board of Circular Genomics and owns stocks. C.C. is a member of the 
scientific advisory board of ADmit. J.L.D. has a patent pending for compounds 
and methods targeting human tau. L.F. has given unpaid seminars and/or webinars 
sponsored or co-sponsored by SomaLogic. O.H. has received nonfinancial support 
from Roache and Lilly and is currently employed by Lilly. E.M.R. has received 
grants from National Institute on Aging and the state of Arizona; receives 
philanthropic funding from the Banner Alzheimer’s Foundation, Sun Health 
Foundation and Roche/Roche Diagnostics; receives personal fees from Alkahest, 
Alzheon, Aural Analytics, Denali, Green Valley, MagQ, Takeda/Zinfandel and 
United Neuroscience; has since submission of manuscript become a cofounder of 
ALZpath, which aims to further develop P-tau217 and fluid biomarkers and advance 
their use in research, drug development and clinical settings; holds a patent 
owned by Banner Health for a strategy to use biomarkers to accelerate evaluation 
of Alzheimer prevention therapies; and is a principal investigator of prevention 
trials that include research agreements with Genentech/Roche and Novartis/Amgen, 
PET studies that include research agreements with Avid/Lilly and several NIH and 
Foundation-supported research studies. T.W.-C. and H.S.-H.O. are co-founders and 
scientific advisors of Teal Omics Inc. and have received equity stakes. T.W.-C. 
is a co-founder and scientific advisor of Alkahest Inc. and Qinotto Inc. and has 
received equity stakes in these companies. The other authors declare no 
competing interests.


43. Nat Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/d41591-022-00044-w. Online ahead of print.

Global collaboration is key to decoding Alzheimer's disease.

Gates B.

DOI: 10.1038/d41591-022-00044-w
PMID: 40664984


44. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25523. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-11065-z.

Retained introns in phototransduction genes of 5xFAD mouse retina suggest vision 
impairment as an early diagnostic marker for Alzheimer's disease.

Lee HM(#)(1), Kim J(#)(1), Kim JY(#)(1), An MJ(1), Shin GS(1), Jo AR(1), Park 
Y(1), Kim CH(1), Hwangbo Y(1), Lee JH(1), Hong TK(1), Lee KH(2)(3), Rhee S(1), 
Kim JW(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Chung-Ang University, 84 Heukseok-Ro, Dongjak-Gu, 
Seoul, 06974, Republic of Korea.
(2)Gwangju Alzheimer's & Related Dementia Cohort Research Center, Chosun 
University, Gwangju, 61452, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Biomedical Science, Chosun University, Gwangju, 61452, Republic 
of Korea.
(4)Department of Life Science, Chung-Ang University, 84 Heukseok-Ro, Dongjak-Gu, 
Seoul, 06974, Republic of Korea. jungkim@cau.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by neuronal and synaptic loss in the brain, which leads to 
cognitive impairment and dementia. Therefore, early diagnosis by employing 
various biomarkers is crucial for preventing and treating AD. Although retinal 
pathology is an emerging biomarker associated with AD, detailed molecular 
mechanisms of retinal impairments remain unclear. Herein, we identified 
genome-wide dysfunction of alternative splicing in the early stage of 5xFAD 
transgenic mouse retina by performing RNA sequencing analysis. Notably, retained 
introns, highly enriched in phototransduction and retinal genes in the 
1.5-month-old 5xFAD mouse retina, was significantly associated with 
physiological impairment of rod photoreceptors in the retina, as evidenced by 
electroretinogram (ERG) analysis. These results indicate that the abnormal 
scotopic ERG associated with global splicing impairment may be valuable as an 
early-detection biomarker for AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-11065-z
PMID: 40664927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval: The animal study protocol was 
approved by the Institutional Review Board of Chung-Ang University (2020-00061), 
and the approval date is July 27, 2020. Consent for publication: All authors 
agree to the publication of this manuscript.


45. Nat Chem Biol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1038/s41589-025-01975-4. Online ahead of 
print.

A genetically encoded selection for amyloid-β oligomer binders.

Lee B(1), Mannone JA(1), Wang T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. 
twang495@wisc.edu.

Soluble amyloid-β oligomers (AβOs) are a hypothesized source of neurotoxicity in 
Alzheimer disease. Binding proteins that recognize these species may have high 
utility in diagnostic and therapeutic applications. However, identifying binders 
to AβOs directly generated from the aggregation cascade is challenging because 
of the short lifetime and low concentrations of oligomer populations. We report 
a strategy to detect binding to AβOs formed during Aβ42 aggregation using a 
genetically encoded biosensor. We show that our method enables rapid, highly 
reproducible measurement of the activity of existing AβO binders and can be used 
to select for new binders with improved potency. We uncover hits that are 
>20-fold more effective than reported binders at delaying secondary nucleation, 
the step in Aβ aggregation thought to generate the highest number of toxic 
oligomers. Our approach may greatly accelerate the discovery and 
characterization of binding proteins that target AβOs.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41589-025-01975-4
PMID: 40664790

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: A provisional patent 
application (application no. 63/657,564) on the cCadC–Aβ42 method for detecting 
oligomer binders has been filed by the University of Wisconsin, with B.L. and 
T.W. as coinventors. The other author declares no competing interests.


46. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25513. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-11731-2.

Potential utility of salivary gland amyloid uptake as a surrogate marker for 
adipose tissue and amyloid-beta dynamics based on its association with BMI and 
cerebral amyloid burden.

Kim KR(#)(1), Kim K(#)(1), Kim JY(2), Yoon HJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Ewha Womans University College of Medicine, 25, Magokdong-ro 2-gil, 
Gangseo-gu, Seoul, 07804, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Ewha Womans University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, 07804, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Ewha Womans University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, 07804, Republic of Korea. haijeon.yoon@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Recent studies have noted an unexpected inverse correlation between body mass 
index (BMI) and cerebral amyloid-beta (Aβ) deposition, suggesting a potential 
involvement of adipose tissue in AD pathology. Given the adipose-rich nature of 
salivary glands, we investigated whether Aβ uptake in the salivary glands is 
associated with the link between BMI and cerebral Aβ deposition 
using18F-Florbetaben PET/CT. We analyzed data from 187 participants, classified 
into Aβ-cognitively normal (Aβ-CN), Aβ+ mild cognitive impairment (Aβ+MCI), and 
Aβ+ AD dementia (Aβ+D) groups. BMI, standardized uptake value ratio of salivary 
glands (SUVRSG), and brain (SUVRB) were quantified, and their associations were 
examined using Pearson correlation and multiple regression analyses. Higher BMI 
was correlated with increased SUVRSG (r = 0.231, p = 0.0019) and decreased SUVRB 
(r = -0.247, p = 0.0009). SUVRSG and SUVRB were negatively correlated (r = 
-0.188, p = 0.0102). Multiple regression analysis identified BMI as an 
independent predictor of composite brain SUVR (β = -0.0168, p = 0.0046), while 
SUVRSG was marginally significant (β = -0.0714, p = 0.0701). Regionally, both 
BMI and SUVRSG were significantly associated with lower SUVRB in the striatum, 
precuneus, and cingulate cortex. Consistent with previous studies, BMI exhibited 
an inverse correlation with SUVRB. Notably, SUVRSG was negatively associated 
with SUVRB while demonstrating a positive correlation with BMI. Interpreting 
SUVRSG as a fat-related marker, these findings suggest that Aβ sequestration in 
adipose tissue may contribute to lower cerebral Aβ accumulation. Additional 
research is necessary to elucidate the underlying mechanism.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-11731-2
PMID: 40664695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


47. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul 14:100271. doi: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100271. 
Online ahead of print.

A multimodal lifestyle intervention complemented with epigallocatechin gallate 
to prevent cognitive decline in APOE- ɛ4 carriers with Subjective Cognitive 
Decline: a randomized, double-blinded clinical trial (PENSA study).

Forcano L(1), Soldevila-Domenech N(2), Boronat A(3), Sánchez-Benavides G(4), 
Puig-Pijoan A(5), Lorenzo T(6), Aldea-Perona A(7), Suárez-Calvet M(8), 
Cuenca-Royo A(1), Gispert JD(9), Gomis-Gonzalez M(10), Minguillón C(4), 
Diaz-Pellicer P(11), Fauria K(12), Piera I(13), Langohr K(14), Dierssen M(15), 
Pizarro N(3), Mur-Gimeno E(16), Grau-Rivera O(8), Molinuevo JL(17), de la Torre 
R(18); PENSA working group.

Author information:
(1)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; CIBER de Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición, Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Clinical and Risk Factors for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
Research Group, Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research 
Institute, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento Saludable 
(CIBER-FES), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Cognition and Behavior Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital Del Mar, 
Barcelona, Spain; Medicine Department, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain; ERA-Net on Cardiovascular Diseases (ERA-CVD) Consortium, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu 
Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; Neuroimaging of neurodegenerative disease and healthy 
aging Research Group, Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research 
Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 
Barcelona, Spain; Clinical Research Unit, Neuroscience Research Program, 
Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Clinical and Risk Factors for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
Research Group, Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research 
Institute, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento Saludable 
(CIBER-FES), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain; Cognition and 
Behavior Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital Del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu 
Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; Neuroimaging of neurodegenerative disease and healthy 
aging Research Group, Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research 
Institute, Barcelona, Spain; Clinical Research Unit, Neuroscience Research 
Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER en 
Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y Nanomedicina, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 
Madrid, Spain.
(10)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares (CNIC), Madrid, 
Spain.
(11)Clinical Research Unit, Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar 
Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; CIBER de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento Saludable (CIBER-FES), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(13)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(14)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Department of Statistics and Operations Research, Universitat Politècnica 
de Catalunya BARCELONATECH, Barcelona, Spain.
(15)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 
Barcelona, Spain; Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), The Barcelona Institute 
of Science and Technology, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER de Enfermedades Raras 
(CIBERER), Madrid, Spain.
(16)Attention to Chronicity and Innovation in Health (GRACIS), Escola Superior 
de Ciències de la Salut Tecnocampus, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Mataró, Spain.
(17)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Experimental Medicine, H. Lundbeck A/S, København, Denmark.
(18)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; CIBER de Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición, Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III, Madrid, Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat 
Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: rtorre2@researchmar.net.

BACKGROUND: The potential of dietary compounds to enhance the effects of 
multimodal lifestyle interventions (MLIs) on cognition in individuals at high 
risk of cognitive impairment remains unclear.
OBJECTIVES: To assess whether the addition of a green tea extract enriched with 
epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) enhances the effects of an MLI.
DESIGN: Double-blind, randomized, two-arm, and placebo-controlled trial. 
Exploratory comparisons were made with a non-randomized group (NRG) receiving 
healthy lifestyle recommendations.
SETTING: Population-based study conducted in Barcelona, Spain PARTICIPANTS: 
APOE-ɛ4 carriers aged 60-80 with subjective cognitive decline INTERVENTION: A 
12-month intensive MLI including dietary counseling, guided physical activity, 
and cognitive stimulation, combined with EGCG (5-6 mg/kg) or placebo, followed 
by a 3-month washout.
MEASUREMENTS: Primary endpoint was change in the modified Preclinical Alzheimer 
Cognitive Composite (PACC-exe) score.
RESULTS: 129 participants (65.1% 84 women, aged 66.7±5.5 years) were enrolled 
(52 MLI+EGCG, 52 MLI+placebo and 25 NRG), with126 (97.7%) included in the 
modified intention-to-treat analysis. After 12 months, no statistically 
significant difference was observed between MLI+EGCG and MLI+placebo in the 
PACC-exe (adjusted mean difference [AMD]: 0.12; 95%CI: -0.01, 0.24; p=0.061). 
However, participants in the MLI+EGCG group were 2.6 times more likely to show a 
reliable cognitive improvement. In exploratory analyses following a 3-month 
washout, the MLI+EGCG group showed significant cognitive benefits compared to 
the MLI+placebo (AMD: 0.19; 95%CI: 0.06, 0.32; p=0.005). Exploratory comparisons 
with the NRG also suggested greater gains in cognition and dementia risk 
reduction in both MLI groups, particularly with EGCG.
CONCLUSIONS: While the primary outcome was not met, this proof-of-concept trial 
suggests that combining MLIs with EGCG warrants further investigation in larger, 
confirmatory studies.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100271
PMID: 40664536

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing interests The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Jose Luis Molinuevo reports a 
relationship with H Lundbeck that includes: employment. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


48. Comput Biol Med. 2025 Jul 14;196(Pt A):110762. doi: 
10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110762. Online ahead of print.

ML-based prediction to experimental validation: Development of 
dihydroquinazoline based multi-potent ligands as anti-Alzheimer's agents.

Jangid K(1), Devi B(1), Kumar N(2), Upadhayay S(3), Kumar V(2), Thareja S(4), 
Kumar V(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Organic and Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, 
Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, India; Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences and Natural Products, Central University of Punjab, 
Bathinda, 151401, India.
(2)Laboratory of Organic and Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, 
Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, 
India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Natural Products, Central 
University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, India.
(5)Laboratory of Organic and Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, 
Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, India. Electronic address: 
vpathania18@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurological disorder accounting 
for the cognitive decline in the patients. The disease is linked to numerous 
pathological factors including hyperactivation of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) 
and monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), accumulation of amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and 
neurofibrillary tangles in the brain etc. The single-target medications already 
available in the market are found to be ineffective and the research focus is 
shifting towards the development of multitargeting agents. In order to find a 
multi-potent inhibitor against AChE, MAO-B and Aβ1-42, in the present study we 
employed a machine learning-based tool, PyRMD, to screen an in-house generated 
library of dihydroquinazoline derivatives. This screening process identified six 
promising compounds, KV-271, KV-832, KV-968, KV-1131, KV-1159, KV-1234 with dual 
inhibition potential against AChE and MAO-B enzymes. In the docking studies, 
these compounds showed good interactions at the active cavity of the AChE and 
MAO-B comparable to the standard inhibitors donepezil (AChE) and pargyline 
(MAO-B). To validate these predictions, the six identified compounds were 
synthesized and subjected to in vitro enzymatic assays. All the six compounds 
displayed significant inhibitory activity, with IC50 values below 5 μM for both 
AChE and MAO-B. Amongst these compounds, KV-1131 and KV-1234 were found to be 
the most potent inhibitors with IC50 values of 0.93 μM and 0.85 μM against AChE 
and IC50 values of 1.17 μM and 0.79 μM against MAO-B, respectively. In addition, 
KV-1131 and KV-1234 exhibited inhibitory activity against Aβ1-42 
self-aggregation inhibition of 34.79 % and 45.70 %, respectively, after 48 h of 
incubation. Both KV-1131 and KV-1234 were found to be non-toxic up to 10 μM 
concentration and showed neuroprotective potential against 6-hydroxydopamine 
induced neurotoxicity in the SHSY-5Y cells. Thus, KV-1131 and KV-1234 were 
identified as potent leads that can be developed as drug candidates for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110762
PMID: 40664126

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


49. Spectrochim Acta A Mol Biomol Spectrosc. 2025 Jul 10;344(Pt 1):126659. doi: 
10.1016/j.saa.2025.126659. Online ahead of print.

A hydrogen bond-triggered excimer probe for dynamic monitoring of aspartic acid 
and glutamic acid.

Xie X(1), Wang X(1), Li Y(1), Yang L(1), Qi Z(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu 211189, PR China.
(2)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu 211189, PR China. Electronic address: qizhengjian@seu.edu.cn.

Aspartic acid (Asp) and glutamic acid (Glu), as critical neurotransmitters, 
exhibit concentration abnormalities closely associated with epilepsy, 
Alzheimer's disease, and other neurological disorders. However, current 
detection methods face limitations in selectivity, sensitivity, and 
practicality. In this study, we developed a series of novel D-π-A structured 
fluorescent probes (PM-1, PM-2, PM-3, and PM-4), Among which PM-4 demonstrates 
weak monomer emission (540 nm) in aqueous solution. The pyridine side chain of 
PM-4 forms hydrogen bonds with the dual carboxylate groups of Asp/Glu, 
triggering the formation of emissive excimers. This process generates a new, 
enhanced red-shifted emission peak at 630 nm, enabling specific detection. The 
detection limits reached 1.26 μM (Asp) and 1.29 μM (Glu), with high selectivity. 
The formation mechanism of the probe-analyte complex was confirmed by NMR 
titration experiments. PM-4 successfully monitored diurnal fluctuations of 
Asp/Glu in saliva samples from healthy volunteers and concentration variations 
after smoking, revealing a correlation with emotional states (e.g., peak 
concentrations observed 10 min after smoking). The developed PM-4 probe 
integrates high sensitivity, selectivity, providing a powerful analytical tool 
for neurometabolic studies and disease biomarker detection. Its demonstrated 
performance highlights promising potential for both fundamental research and 
diagnostic product development.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.saa.2025.126659
PMID: 40664055

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


50. IEEE Trans Med Imaging. 2025 Jul 15;PP. doi: 10.1109/TMI.2025.3588859. Online
 ahead of print.

Bayesian Posterior Distribution Estimation of Kinetic Parameters in Dynamic 
Brain PET Using Generative Deep Learning Models.

Djebra Y, Liu X, Marin T, Tiss A, Dhaynaut M, Guehl N, Johnson K, Fakhri GE, Ma 
C, Ouyang J.

Positron Emission Tomography (PET) is a valuable imaging method for studying 
molecular-level processes in the body, such as hyperphosphorylated tau (p-tau) 
protein aggregates, a hallmark of several neurodegenerative diseases including 
Alzheimer's disease. P-tau density and cerebral perfusion can be quantified from 
dynamic PET images using tracer kinetic modeling techniques. However, noise in 
PET images leads to uncertainty in the estimated kinetic parameters, which can 
be quantified by estimating the posterior distribution of kinetic parameters 
using Bayesian inference (BI). Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques are 
commonly used for posterior estimation but with significant computational needs. 
This work proposes an Improved Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model 
(iDDPM)-based method to estimate the posterior distribution of kinetic 
parameters in dynamic PET, leveraging the high computational efficiency of deep 
learning. The performance of the proposed method was evaluated on a [18F]MK6240 
study and compared to a Conditional Variational Autoencoder with dual decoder 
(CVAE-DD)-based method and a Wasserstein GAN with gradient penalty 
(WGAN-GP)-based method. Posterior distributions inferred from Metropolis-Hasting 
MCMC were used as reference. Our approach consistently outperformed the CVAE-DD 
and WGAN-GP methods and offered significant reduction in computation time than 
the MCMC method (over 230 times faster), inferring accurate (< 0.67% mean error) 
and precise (< 7.23% standard deviation error) posterior distributions.

DOI: 10.1109/TMI.2025.3588859
PMID: 40663684


51. IEEE J Biomed Health Inform. 2025 Jul 15;PP. doi: 10.1109/JBHI.2025.3589290. 
Online ahead of print.

A Hierarchical Attention-based Negative Sampling Method for Drug Repositioning 
Using Neighborhood Interaction Fusion.

Mi C, Dai L, Shang J, Zhu R, Wang J, Li F.

Accurate prediction of drug-disease associations (DDAs) is essential for drug 
repositioning and the development of novel therapeutic strategies. However, 
existing methods often suffer from limited prior knowledge and the use of 
oversimplified negative sampling techniques, which hinder their ability to 
capture the complex relationships between drugs and diseases. To break through 
these limitations, we propose a new model, Hierarchical Attention 
Mechanism-Based Negative Sampling (HA-NegS), which aims to enhance the 
prediction of potential DDAs. In this study, HA-NegS further computes the 
similarity information between drugs and diseases and constructs heterogeneous 
and homogeneous networks based on it. For the similarity network, HA-NegS fuses 
Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) and Graph Attention Network (GAT) to 
effectively capture the neighborhood features of the target nodes. Subsequently, 
the model incorporates a hierarchical sampling strategy using the PageRank 
algorithm to rank nodes in descending order of global importance. The attention 
mechanism is then used to calculate the attention score and re-rank the nodes 
accordingly. This approach ensures the reliability of the negative sample 
selection. In order to obtain optimized representations, we use graph 
contrastive learning methods to refine drug and disease features with 
homogeneous and heterogeneous neighborhood information. Experimental results on 
a benchmark dataset show that HA-NegS outperforms existing baseline methods in 
predicting DDA. In addition, case studies for Alzheimer's disease and 
Parkinson's disease highlight the effectiveness of HA-NegS in discovering new 
therapeutic applications for existing drugs.

DOI: 10.1109/JBHI.2025.3589290
PMID: 40663664


52. PLoS One. 2025 Jul 15;20(7):e0328470. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0328470. 
eCollection 2025.

Peripheral administration of blood from tau transgenic animals exacerbates brain 
tau-associated pathology.

Vegas-Gomez L(1), Pizarro M(2)(3), Garcia-Martin J(1), Arredondo-Alcala MA(1), 
Bustamante B(2), Gonzalez-Silva C(2), Matus S(4)(5), Diaz-Espinoza R(6), 
Gutierrez A(1)(7), Morales R(8)(9), Duran-Aniotz C(2), Moreno-Gonzalez 
I(1)(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Genetics and Physiology, Instituto de 
Investigacion Biomedica de Malaga - IBIMA-Plataforma Bionand, Faculty of 
Sciences, Malaga University, Malaga, Spain.
(2)Latin American Brain Health Institute (BrainLat), Universidad Adolfo Ibanez, 
Santiago, Chile.
(3)Center for Social and Cognitive Neuroscience (CSCN), School of Psychology, 
Universidad Adolfo Ibanez, Santiago, Chile.
(4)Centro Ciencia & Vida, Fundación Ciencia & Vida (FCV), Santiago, Chile.
(5)Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad San Sebastián, Santiago, Chile.
(6)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Química y Biología, Universidad de 
Santiago de Chile.
(7)Centro de Investigacion Biomedica en Red sobre Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(8)Department of Neurology, The University of Texas Health Science Center at 
Houston, Houston, Texas, United States of America.
(9)Centro Integrativo de Biologia y Quimica Aplicada (CIBQA), Universidad 
Bernardo O'Higgins, Santiago, Chile.

The accumulation of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are pathological 
hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). While amyloid-beta propagation through 
prion-like mechanisms has been extensively studied in both central and 
peripheral pathways, the potential spreading of tau aggregates in the periphery 
remains largely unexplored. Emerging evidence suggests that hyperphosphorylated 
tau (ptau) aggregates may propagate beyond the central nervous system, as they 
have been detected in peripheral tissues and biological fluids from humans and 
mouse models of tauopathies. However, whether peripheral ptau aggregates or 
other factors associated to its accumulation contribute to brain pathology 
remains unclear. In this study, we investigate the contribution of peripheral 
blood from aged P301S tau transgenic mice to tau-associated brain pathology. 
Blood was administered via intraperitoneal and intravenous routes to assess 
their effect on cognitive and motor impairment, ptau accumulation, and glial 
response. Our findings reveal that inoculation of blood from aged P301S mice 
increases tau pathology in the hippocampus, exacerbates motor and cognitive 
impairment, and elevates glial response. These results underscore the potential 
role of peripheral factors in driving brain pathology, supporting the hypothesis 
that blood from affected individuals contributes to the progression of 
tau-related neurodegeneration. Elucidating the mechanisms of tau dissemination 
could provide critical insights into disease progression and strengthen the 
rationale for targeting tau as a therapeutic strategy in AD and other 
tauopathies.

Copyright: © 2025 Vegas-Gomez et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0328470
PMID: 40663569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare.


53. J Nat Prod. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1021/acs.jnatprod.5c00486. Online ahead of 
print.

Bletistrosides M-X, Anti-Alzheimer's Disease Compounds from the Tubers of 
Bletilla striata.

Bian Z(1), Liu X(1), Li J(1), Hu S(1), Choo YM(2), Zhao Z(3), Hu J(3), Ji K(4), 
Hamann MT(5), Wang X(1), Wang X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu 730000, P. R. China.
(2)Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, University of Malaya, 50603 Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Institute of Natural Medicine and Health Products, School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Plant Evolutionary Ecology and 
Conservation, Taizhou University, Taizhou Zhejiang 318000, PR China.
(4)Glasgow International College, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G11 6NU, 
Scotland United Kingdom.
(5)Drug Discovery, Biomedical Sciences and Public Health, Medical University of 
South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina 29425, United States.

Twelve new compounds, bletistrosides M-X (1-12), including five 
glucosyloxybenzyl 2-isobutylmalates (1-5), along with four neolignan glycosides 
(6-9), two phenanthrene derivatives (10-11), and one bibenzyl derivative (12), 
were isolated from the tubers of Bletilla striata (B. striata). The structures 
and absolute configurations of the undescribed compounds were elucidated on the 
basis of spectroscopic data analysis, experimental and calculated electronic 
circular dichroism data, chiroptical analysis, and chemical derivatizations. In 
silico, compounds 2, 3, and 12 bound well to Aβ1-42. Compounds 2, 3, and 12 
significantly delayed the paralysis phenotype in CL4176 worms compared to 
controls. Higher nonparalysis rates were observed in these treatment groups (5 
μM for compound 2; 25, 50 μM for compounds 2, 3 and 12), suggesting their 
potential role in anti-Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jnatprod.5c00486
PMID: 40663501


54. Am J Chin Med. 2025 Jul 15:1-23. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X25500569. Online ahead
of  print.

Quercetin Ameliorates Learning and Memory in OVX/D-gal-Induced Alzheimer's 
Disease in Rats by Inhibiting Neuroinflammation via cGAS-STING Signal Pathway.

Zhang X(1), Ma MF(1), Zong R(1)(2), Liu HB(1)(2), Wang TX(1), Liu C(1), Cui 
YY(1), Liu LJ(1)(2), Wu MM(1)(2), Shen LX(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Hebei North University, Zhangjiakou, Hebei 075000, 
China.
(2)Hebei Key Laboratory of Neuropharmacology, Zhangjiakou, Hebei 075000, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related degenerative disorder of the central 
nervous system. Neuroinflammation is considered a key factor in its etiology and 
progression. AD is more prevalent in women than men and may be related to 
postmenopausal hormone deficiency. This study constructed an AD rat model by 
bilateral ovariectomy (OVX) and intraperitoneal injection of D-galactose (D-gal) 
and an in vitro AD cell model was induced in PC12 cells using lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS). The Morris water maze test was employed to assess the impact of quercetin 
(Que) on learning and memory in OVX/D-gal rats. Immunohistochemistry was 
utilized to assess the impact of Que on the expression of Aβ protein, p-tau 
protein, GFAP, and Iba1 in the hippocampus of OVX/D-gal rats. Nissl staining was 
performed to examine hippocampal pathological damage. ELISA was conducted to 
measure serum estrogen levels and the release of inflammatory cytokines, 
specifically TNF-α and IL-1β, in the hippocampus of OVX/D-gal rats. HE staining 
was utilized to evaluate uterine pathological alterations in OVX/D-gal rats. 
Cell viability was assessed using the CCK-8 assay to determine the protective 
effect of quercetin on LPS-induced PC12 cells. Western Blot analysis was 
conducted to evaluate the expression levels of estrogen receptors and the 
proteins associated with the cGAS-STING pathway in both in vitro and in vivo 
models. Protein-protein docking studies were performed to investigate the 
binding affinity between the estrogen receptor and proteins involved in the 
cGAS-STING signaling pathway. Results demonstrated that Que enhanced learning 
and memory capabilities in OVX/D-gal rats, alleviated hippocampal pathological 
damage, reduced the expression of Aβ, p-tau, GFAP, and Iba1, and inhibited the 
release of inflammatory factors. Additionally, Que activated estrogen receptor 
expression and increased serum estrogen levels without exacerbating uterine 
lesions. Furthermore, Que activated the estrogen receptor in LPS-induced PC12 
cells, which inhibited the release of IL-6 and exerted neuroprotective effects. 
Que also suppressed the expression of proteins associated with the cGAS-STING 
pathway both in vitro and in vivo. Estrogen receptors exhibited strong binding 
affinity with cGAS-STING pathway proteins. In conclusion, Que can inhibit 
neuroinflammation in vitro and in vivo, enhance learning and memory in OVX/D-gal 
rats, and exert neuroprotective effects. The underlying mechanism may involve 
the inhibition of the cGAS-STING signaling pathway, and the estrogen receptor 
potentially influences this pathway directly or indirectly.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X25500569
PMID: 40663436


55. J Clin Invest. 2025 Jul 15:e182702. doi: 10.1172/JCI182702. Online ahead of 
print.

Efficacy and safety of a therapeutic humanized FSH-blocking antibody in obesity 
and Alzheimer's disease models.

Pallapati AR(1), Korkmaz F(1), Rojekar S(1), Sims S(1), Misra A(2), Gimenez-Roig 
J(1), Gangadhar A(1), Laurencin V(1), Gumerova A(1), Cheliadinova U(1), Sultana 
F(1), Vasilyeva D(1), Cullen L(1), Schuermann J(3), Munitz J(4), Kannangara 
H(1), Parte S(1), Pevnev G(1), Burganova G(1), Tumoglu Z(1), Witztum R(1), 
Wizman S(1), Kramskiy N(1), Igel L(1), Sen F(1), Ranzenigo A(4), Macdonald A(1), 
Hutchison S(1), Teunissen AJ(4), Burkart H(5), Saxena M(1), Ginzburg Y(1), 
Goosens K(1), Zhou W(1), Ryu V(1), Moldavski O(1), Barak O(1), Pazianas M(1), 
Caminis J(1), Bhasin S(6), Fitzgerald R(7), Kim SM(1), Quinn M(5), Haider S(8), 
Appt S(5), Frolinger T(1), Rosen CJ(9), Lizneva D(1), Gupta YK(2), Yuen T(1), 
Zaidi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai Center for Translational Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, United States of America.
(2)Greehey Children's Cancer Research Institute, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, United States of America.
(3)Northeastern Collaborative Access Team, Department of Chemistry and Chemica, 
Cornell University, Ithaca, United States of America.
(4)BioMedical Engineering and Imaging Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, United States of America.
(5)Department of Pathology-Comparative Medicine, Wake Forest University School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, United States of America.
(6)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Hypertension, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, United States of America.
(7)Institute of Systems, Molecular and Integrative Biology, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(8)School of Pharmacy, University College, London, United Kingdom.
(9)5MaineHealth Institute for Research, Scarborough, United States of America.

There is growing evidence for direct actions of follicle-stimulating hormone 
(FSH) on tissues other than the ovaries and testes. Blocking FSH action, either 
genetically or pharmacologically, protects against bone loss, fat gain, and 
memory loss in mice. We thus developed a humanized FSH-blocking 
antibody--MS-Hu6--as a lead therapeutic for three diseases of public health 
magnitude--osteoporosis, obesity and Alzheimer's disease (AD) that track 
together in post-menopausal women. Here, we report the crystal structure of 
MS-Hu6 and its interaction with FSH in atomistic detail. Using our 
Good-Laboratory-Practice-Compliant platform (21CFR58), we formulated MS-Hu6 and 
the murine equivalent Hf2 at an ultra-high concentration; both formulated 
antibodies displayed enhanced thermal and colloidal stability. A single 
injection of 89Zr-labelled MS-Hu6 revealed a beta-phase t½ of 89 and 131 hours 
for female and male mice, respectively, with retention in regions of interest. 
Female mice injected subcutaneously with Hf2 displayed a dose-dependent 
reduction in body weight and body fat. Hf2 also rescued recognition memory and 
spatial learning loss in a context- and time-dependent manner in AD-prone 3xTg 
and APP/PS1 mice. MS-Hu6 injected into African green monkeys (8 mg/kg) 
intravenously, and then subcutaneously at monthly intervals, was safe, and 
without effects on vitals, blood chemistries or blood counts. There was a 
notable ~4% weight loss in all four monkeys after the first injection, which 
continued in two of four monkeys. We thus provide IND-enabling data towards an 
upcoming first-in-human study.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI182702
PMID: 40663423


56. Methods Mol Biol. 2025;2934:59-70. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-4578-9_5.

Preparation of μSPOT Lactam-Cyclized Peptides for Ligand Optimization.

Bartling CRO(1)(2), Strømgaard K(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Biopharmaceuticals, Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. christian.bartling@sund.ku.dk.
(2)Chemistry, Gubra A/S, Hørsholm, Denmark. christian.bartling@sund.ku.dk.
(3)Center for Biopharmaceuticals, Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Cyclic peptides have emerged as promising therapeutic agents for targeting 
challenging protein-protein interactions (PPIs), combining high affinity, 
specificity, stability, and potential for improved drug-like properties. The 
outlined protocol describes a streamlined method for side chain-to-side chain 
lactam cyclization in a peptide array format based on the μSPOT method. The 
approach enables efficient synthesis and screening of cyclic peptide libraries 
with minimal synthetic effort, focusing on exploring cyclization positions and 
linker topology. The method is exemplified by developing cyclic peptide 
modulators of the APP/Mint2 PPI, a target implicated in Alzheimer's disease. The 
workflow integrates orthogonal protection strategies, analytical controls, and 
array-based binding assays, enabling the identification of binding-optimized 
cyclic peptides. Follow-up validation through fluorescence polarization assays 
demonstrated a strong correlation with array-based relative binding data 
(r2 = 0.88). The described approach is versatile and scalable, offering a robust 
platform for discovering novel cyclic peptides with enhanced stability, 
affinity, and permeability, paving the way for advanced therapeutic applications 
in PPI modulation.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-4578-9_5
PMID: 40663323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05220-w. Online ahead of 
print.

Ubiquitination in the Nervous System: From Molecular Mechanisms to Disease 
Implications.

Xue Y(#)(1), Liu X(#)(1), Chen X(#)(1), Zhang S(2), Liu W(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Hubei Key Laboratory of Diabetes and Angiopathy, Xianning 
Medical College, Hubei University of Science and Technology, Xianning , Hubei, 
437000, China.
(2)School of Resource and Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Hubei 
University of Science and Technology, Xianning , Hubei, 437000, China.
(3)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Xianning Medical College, Hubei University 
of Science and Technology, No. 88 Xianning Avenue, Xianning , Hubei, 437000, 
China. lw463684057@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

The ubiquitin‒proteasome system (UPS) comprises ubiquitin, various enzymes, and 
the proteasome, which are collectively responsible for selectively regulating 
protein degradation within the human body. Ubiquitination plays a crucial role 
in various physiological and pathological processes of the nervous system. In 
neurons, ubiquitination influences synaptic transmission, neural network 
formation, and mitochondrial homeostasis. E3 ubiquitin ligases (E3s) such as 
ubiquitin-protein ligase E3A (UBE3A), HUWE1, and Parkin, along with 
deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) such as USP9X (ubiquitin specific peptidase 9, 
X-linked) and OTUD5, are vital for neural development and functional 
maintenance. The dysregulation of ubiquitination is closely associated with 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). A comprehensive understanding of the functions of ubiquitination 
in the nervous system and an in-depth exploration of its mechanisms in neural 
development and disease progression may reveal potential targets and therapeutic 
strategies for treating neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05220-w
PMID: 40663270

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: All authors agree to 
publish this review. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


58. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05191-y. Online ahead of 
print.

Fermented Soybean Pulp Alleviates Disease Progression of 5×FAD Model Mice.

Yang CY(1), Liu YH(1), Lin TC(1), Chang KH(2), Hsieh-Li HM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University 
College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei, 
Taiwan. hmhsieh@ntnu.edu.tw.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder of the 
central nervous system, characterized by memory loss and cognitive decline. The 
two main hypotheses regarding AD involve the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) 
forming plaques and the intracellular hyperphosphorylation of tau protein, 
leading to the formation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). These processes are 
accompanied by neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, and eventual neuronal 
death. While soy foods are widely recognized for their nutritional benefits, 
soybean pulp (okara), the residue left over from making tofu or soybean milk, is 
mostly discarded as kitchen waste, despite being rich in nutrients such as 
dietary fiber, protein, and isoflavones. This underutilized byproduct may serve 
as a valuable resource for functional food development and sustainable resource 
use. In this study, fermented soybean pulp (FS) demonstrated neuroprotective 
effects. In vitro, FS at concentrations of 0.001 µg/mL and 0.01 µg/mL 
significantly improved cell viability in Aβ-induced HT-22 cells and reduced 
lipid peroxidation. Further, in vivo oral administration of FS attenuated the 
cognitive deficits of 5 × FAD mice, enhancing both short and long-term memory 
and reducing anxiety-like behaviors. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that 
the FS-treated 5 × FAD mice group significantly reduced hippocampal amyloid 
plaque accumulation and gliosis. FS also upregulated the expression levels of 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), PSD95, and synaptophysin, while 
preventing hippocampal neuronal loss. Mechanistically, FS may activate the Nrf2 
antioxidant pathway and NF-κB-mediated inflammation through the modulation of 
the Akt/GSK3β signaling axis in the hippocampus. These molecular actions likely 
contribute to increased antioxidant enzymes and suppressed neuroinflammatory 
responses. Overall, this study suggests that FS has therapeutic potential for 
alleviating cognitive and behavioral impairments in AD. Moreover, the 
repurposing of soybean pulp, which would otherwise be discarded, enhances its 
utilization value and supports sustainable green recycling.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05191-y
PMID: 40663268

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: All of the animal 
experiments were conducted according to the Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee (IACUC) of the National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei, Taiwan 
(Permit Number: NTNU112017). Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent to 
Publish: Authors approve for submitting the publication. Competing interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests.


59. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.23736/S0022-4707.25.16503-1. 
Online ahead of print.

Do exercise interventions improve functional mobility and balance in Alzheimer's 
patients? A systematic review.

Adderley J(1), Ciccarelli S(2), Ferraro FV(3).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Exercise and Rehabilitation Research Center, University of Derby, 
Derby, UK.
(2)University of Naples Parthenope, Naples, Italy.
(3)Clinical Exercise and Rehabilitation Research Center, University of Derby, 
Derby, UK - f.ferraro@derby.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a form of dementia defined as a 
degenerative neurological condition associated with cognitive and functional 
decline above the natural and irreversible structural changes in body tissues 
caused by ageing. AD is the most common form of cognitive impairment in the 
population over 65 years old, also associated with poor functional mobility (FM) 
and balance, which can lead to falls in elderly populations.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: This systematic review, conducted according to the PRISMA 
and PROSPERO guidelines, assesses the effectiveness of various physical exercise 
interventions in improving functional mobility, balance and reducing the risk of 
falls in patients with Alzheimer's older than 65 years. A search has been 
conducted in PubMed, PEDro and Cochrane Library databases to identify relevant 
Randomized Controlled Trial studies. Only studies published in English focusing 
on Exercise, Exercise Intervention, Alzheimer's, Alzheimer's Disease, Functional 
Mobility, Mobility, Risk of Falling, Balance, Over 65, and combinations were 
included. The Cochrane RoB2 tool was used to assess the quality of the 
identified RCTs. Seven out of 5432 studies were included in the analysis.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: A moderate level of evidence suggests that interventions 
involving strength exercises, FM and balance are effective in improving mobility 
and balance in older Alzheimer's patients. Limited evidence indicates that this 
type of activity could also reduce the risk of falls.
CONCLUSIONS: Further recommendations concerning exercises, including walking 
activities, and suggestions for future studies on more comprehensive AD cohorts 
were discussed.

DOI: 10.23736/S0022-4707.25.16503-1
PMID: 40663106


60. Am J Epidemiol. 2025 Jul 11:kwaf150. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwaf150. Online ahead
of  print.

Evaluating administrative measures of school quality as mediators of the 
relationship between attending a segregated school and cognitive function among 
older Black individuals: The STAR Study.

Gutierrez S(1), Whitmer RA(2)(3)(4), Thomas MD(5), George KM(2), Peterson R(6), 
Barnes LL(7), Allen IE(1), Glymour MM(8), Torres JM(1), Gilsanz P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States.
(2)Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of California Davis, Sacramento, 
California, United States.
(3)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California Davis, Davis, 
California, United States.
(4)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Pleasanton, 
California, United States.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, United States.
(6)School of Public and Community Health Sciences, University of Montana, 
Missoula, Montana, United States.
(7)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois, United States.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, United States.

Research highlights school segregation's impact on cognitive aging for older 
Black adults, yet the mediating role of school quality-reflecting systemic 
(dis)investment in segregated schools-remains unexplored. This study included 
726 community-dwelling Black adults from the Study of Healthy Aging in African 
Americans. Participants self-reported segregated school attendance, while 
administrative measures of state-level school quality (term length, percent 
attendance, student-teacher ratio, composite z-score) were linked to their 
grade-specific state of residence. We estimated the extent to which associations 
between segregated schooling and domain-specific cognition were mediated by 
school quality. Sensitivity analyses examined grade-specific effects. Attending 
a segregated school was associated with poorer school quality (e.g., 
βterm-length= -1.71 [-2.52,-0.91]) and lower semantic memory (β= -0.17 
[-0.32,-0.02]). The school quality composite measure mediated 30% of the overall 
association with semantic memory (natural indirect effect: β= -0.05 
[-0.09,-0.01]; direct effect: β= -0.14 [-0.30,0.02]). Total effect estimates 
were imprecise for executive function and verbal episodic memory. Our results 
suggest that state-level (dis)investments in school quality may be an important 
mechanism by which school-based segregation contributes to late-life cognitive 
function. Interventions that target the upstream, structural drivers of 
school-based segregation and related disinvestments may be important strategies 
for reducing cognitive aging inequities.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwaf150
PMID: 4066306161. Stat Med. 2025 Jul;44(15-17):e70186. doi: 10.1002/sim.70186.

A Latent-Class Model for Time-To-Event Outcomes and High-Dimensional Imaging 
Data.

Feng J(1), Shi H(1), Da M(2), Beg MF(3), Cao J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, Simon Fraser University, 
Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada.
(2)School of Medicine, Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
USA.
(3)School of Engineering, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British Columbia, 
Canada.

Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is one of the primary predictors of 
Alzheimer's disease risk, enabling the identification of patients with similar 
risk profiles for precision medicine treatment. Motivated by the need for 
flexible modeling in AD research, we propose a latent-class model that addresses 
the heterogeneity within study populations. This model allows for varying 
relationships between covariates and survival outcomes, accommodating the 
dynamics of AD progression. The imaging predictors are characterized by 
bivariate splines over triangulation to accommodate the irregular domain of the 
brain images. We develop a generalized expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm 
that combines the computational methods for logistic regression and penalized 
proportional hazards models to implement the proposed approach. We demonstrate 
the advantages of the proposed method through extensive simulation studies and 
provide an application to the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) 
study, which helps to reveal different subtypes or stages of the disease process 
in Alzheimer's Disease.

© 2025 The Author(s). Statistics in Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.70186
PMID: 40662861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Bioinformatics. 2025 Jul 1;41(Supplement_1):i227-i236. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf257.

Trustworthy causal biomarker discovery: a multiomics brain imaging 
genetics-based approach.

Zhang J(1), Yang Y(1), Shang M(1), Guo L(1), Zhang D(2), Du L(1); and the 
Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Intelligent Science and Technology, Northwestern Polytechnical 
University School of Automation, Shaanxi 710072, China.
(2)School of Artificial Intelligence, Nanjing University of Aeronautics and 
Astronautics, Nanjing 210000, China.

MOTIVATION: Discovering genetic variations underpinning brain disorders is 
important to understand their pathogenesis. Indirect associations or spurious 
causal relationships pose a threat to the reliability of biomarker discovery for 
brain disorders, potentially misleading or incurring bias in subsequent 
decision-making. Unfortunately, the stringent selection of reliable biomarker 
candidates for brain disorders remains a predominantly unexplored challenge.
RESULTS: In this article, to fill this gap, we propose a fresh and powerful 
scheme, referred to as the Causality-aware Genotype intermediate Phenotype 
Correlation Approach (Ca-GPCA). Specifically, we design a bidirectional 
association learning framework, integrated with a parallel causal variable 
decorrelation module and sparse variable regularizer module, to identify 
trustworthy causal biomarkers. A disease diagnosis module is further 
incorporated to ensure accurate diagnosis and identification of causal effects 
for pathogenesis. Additionally, considering the large computational burden 
incurred by high-dimensional genotype-phenotype covariances, we develop a fast 
and efficient strategy to reduce the runtime and prompt practical availability 
and applicability. Extensive experimental results on four simulation data and 
real neuroimaging genetic data clearly show that Ca-GPCA outperforms 
state-of-the-art methods with excellent built-in interpretability. This can 
provide novel and reliable insights into the underlying pathogenic mechanisms of 
brain disorders.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The software is publicly available at 
https://github.com/ZJ-Techie/Ca-GPCA.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf257
PMID: 40662843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Stat Med. 2025 Jul;44(15-17):e70182. doi: 10.1002/sim.70182.

Optimal Linear Combination of Biomarkers by Weighted Youden Index Maximization.

Wang S(1), Fang F(1), Li J(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Advanced Theory and Application in Statistics and Data 
Science - MOE, School of Statistics, East China Normal University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Department of Statistics and Data Science, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Duke University-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore, Singapore.

In medical research, it is common practice to combine various biomarkers to 
improve the accuracy of disease diagnosis. The weighted Youden index (WYI), 
which assigns unequal weights to sensitivity and specificity based on their 
relative importance, serves as an important and flexible evaluation metric of 
diagnostic tests. However, no existing methods have been designed specifically 
to identify the optimal linear combination of biomarkers that maximizes the WYI. 
In this paper, we propose a novel method to construct an optimal diagnosis score 
and determine the best cut-off point at the same time. The estimated combination 
coefficients and cut-off point are shown to have cube root asymptotics, and 
their joint limiting distribution is established rigorously. Further, the 
asymptotic normality of the optimal in-sample WYI is established, and 
out-of-sample inference for score distribution and comparison is investigated. 
These results provide deep theoretical insights for methods of Youden index 
maximization for the first time. Computationally, an iterative marginal 
optimization algorithm, different from the existing literature, is adopted to 
deal with the objective function that is neither continuous nor smooth. 
Simulation studies support the theoretical results and demonstrate the 
superiority of the proposed method. Two real-world examples-coronary disease and 
Alzheimer's disease diagnosis-are presented for illustration.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.70182
PMID: 40662748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Osteopath Med. 2025 Jul 16. doi: 10.1515/jom-2025-0065. Online ahead of
print.

Minimum physical activities protective against Alzheimer's disease in late life: 
a systematic review.

Sakazaki A(1), Lui A(1), Muhammad H(1), Vu C(1), le Roux A(1), Lacayo P(1), 
Murakami S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Foundational Biomedical Sciences, College of Osteopathic 
Medicine, Touro University California, Vallejo, CA, USA.

CONTEXT: Previous studies indicate an inverse relationship between physical 
activity (PA) and the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although they 
highlighted the health benefits of PA, the specific effects of PA in late life 
remain unclear, and intense PA may be challenging for older adults. Moreover, 
there is significant variation in how PA is assessed, including the timing and 
types of activities considered.
OBJECTIVES: This review aimed to evaluate existing literature to determine the 
effects of PA with an emphasis on late-life PA and the minimum levels of PA for 
older adults.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review via the Preferred Reporting Items for 
Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) protocol utilizing the MEDLINE and 
Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) databases, 
last assessed in July 2023. Studies that met the inclusion criteria were 
prospective cohort or interventional studies, that are written in English, and 
that measured PA in a cohort who did not have dementia, AD, or cognitive decline 
at baseline. Retrospective cohort, cross-sectional, case reports, and studies 
not meeting the inclusion criteria were excluded. Each study was evaluated in 
seven domains of bias utilizing the Risk Of Bias In Non-randomized Studies of 
Exposures (ROBINS-E) tool.
RESULTS: Out of 2,322 studies screened, 17 met the inclusion criteria, including 
six new studies not included in the previous systematic review. This resulted in 
206,463 participants from North America (United States and Canada) and Europe 
(Denmark, Finland, Italy, Sweden, and the United Kingdom). Our method 
effectively reduced the number of duplicated studies during screenings, 
resulting in 92 duplications compared to 3,580 in the previous review. The risk 
of bias assessment in the quality of evidence was "low risk" in 13 studies and 
"some concerns" in four studies. Four studies assessed PA at midlife (average 
age, 49 years; average follow-up time, 29.2 years), 11 studies assessed PA in 
late life (average age, 75.9 years; average follow-up time, 5.9 years), and two 
assessed PA in adulthood without specification. For studies that assessed PA at 
midlife, 2 out of 4 (50 %) had statistically significant findings (p<0.05) for 
studies that assessed PA during late life, 8 out of 11 (75 %) had significant 
findings (p<0.05), and 2 out of 2 (100 %) of unspecified timing had significant 
findings (p<0.05). Our review indicated that engaging in PA at least three times 
per week, for at least 15 min per session, was judged to be the minimum 
requirement tested for protective effects against AD in late life. Potential 
biological mechanisms were also discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: Our current review supports existing evidence that PA provides 
significant protection against the development of AD and found that the 
requirement of PA may be less than the current guidelines for sufficient and 
meaningful protection in late life. Excitingly, any form of PA tested can be 
protective against the development of AD, including household activities, 
suggesting that a wider variety of PA can be more appropriate for late life. 
More standardized and detailed studies are needed to update the benefits of PA, 
particularly in the areas of occupational, household/transportation, and 
age-group activities. Further research is needed to determine the optimal PA 
thresholds in these groups.

© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/jom-2025-0065
PMID: 40662743


65. Cent Nerv Syst Agents Med Chem. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 
10.2174/0118715249385792250709073502. Online ahead of print.

Computational Design of Drugs for Epilepsy using a Novel Guided Evolutionary 
Algorithm for Enhanced Blood Brain Barrier Permeability.

Talluri S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, GITAM School of Technology, GITAM, 
Visakhapatnam, India.

INTRODUCTION: Epilepsy is a common disorder of the Central Nervous System (CNS). 
The rational design of small-molecule drugs for disorders of the CNS is a 
difficult process because the majority of small molecules are unable to cross 
the Blood-Brain-Barrier. An efficient method for the design of inhibitors that 
have high permeability through the Blood-Brain-Barrier has the potential for 
application in drug design for CNS disorders such as Addiction, Alzheimer's 
disease, Bipolar disorder, Depression, Epilepsy, Gliomas, and Tuberculous 
meningitis.
METHOD: Supervised learning was used to model the Blood-Brain-Barrier 
permeability of drugs like small organic molecules. This information was 
utilized to guide an evolutionary algorithm for the design of inhibitors with 
increased affinity for the target as well as higher Blood-Brain-Barrier 
permeability.
RESULTS: The ligands designed with guided evolution were predicted to have 
higher binding affinity for the target as well as higher permeability across the 
Blood-Brain-Barrier compared to an evolutionary algorithm without the guidance. 
The guided evolutionary method was applied to design a set of drug-like ligands 
that were predicted to bind to GABA-T with high affinity, to be BBB permeable, 
and to be chemically synthesizable.
DISCUSSION: Despite the availability of several drugs that are approved for the 
treatment of epilepsy, there are many cases that do not respond to available 
drugs or experience adverse effects. The novel ligands designed as part of this 
work have the potential to address the limitations of available drugs.
CONCLUSION: Guided evolution is an efficient computational approach for the 
design of CNS drugs. The de novo design of drugs by application of the guided 
evolution algorithm, developed as part of this work, has resulted in the 
generation of ligands that are potential drugs for the cure of epilepsy. 
However, the effectiveness of these drugs for the cure of epilepsy has to be 
validated experimentally.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715249385792250709073502
PMID: 40662560


66. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 10.2174/0115672050393875250626065205. 
Online ahead of print.

Identification of MicroRNA Drug Targets for Alzheimer's and Diabetes Mellitus 
Using Network Medicine.

Castillo-Velázquez R(1), Castañeda-Delgado JE(2)(3), García-Hernández MH(2), 
Rivas-Santiago B(2), Ruiz-Hernández S(1), Ortiz-Pérez EL(4), López-Alvarenga 
JC(5), Rivera G(4), Lara-Ramírez EE(4).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Ciencias de la Salud y Biomedicina, Universidad 
Autónoma de San Luis Potosí, San Luis Potosí, México.
(2)Unidad de Investigación Biomédica de Zacatecas, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro 
Social, Zacatecas, Zacatecas, México.
(3)Consejo Nacional de humanidades ciencia y tecnología, CONAHCYT. Ciudad de 
México, México.
(4)Laboratorio de Biotecnología Farmacéutica, Centro de Biotecnología Genómica, 
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Reynosa, Tamaulipas, México.
(5)Division of Population Health & Biostatistics, School of Medicine, The 
University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, Texas, Edinburg, United States of 
America.

INTRODUCTION: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) is a known risk factor for 
developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent research shows that both diseases 
share complex and related pathophysiological processes. Network medicine 
approaches can help to elucidate common dysregulated processes among different 
diseases, such as AD and T2D. Thus, the aim of this work was to determine 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in AD and T2D and to apply a network 
medicine approach to identify the microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in the AD-T2D 
association.
METHODS: Gene expression microarray data sets consisting of 384 control samples 
and 399 samples belonging to AD and T2D disease were analyzed to obtain DEGs 
shared by both diseases; the miRNAs associated with these DEGs were predicted 
using a network medicine approach. Finally, potential small molecules targeting 
these potentially deregulated miRNAs were identified.
RESULTS: AD and T2D shared a small subset of 82 downregulated DEGs. These genes 
were significantly associated (p < 0.01) with the ontology terms of chemical 
synaptic deregulation. DEGs were associated with 12 miRNAs expressed in specific 
tissues for AD and T2D. Such miRNAs were also primarily associated with the 
ontology terms related to synaptic deregulation and cancer, and AKT signaling 
pathways. Steroid anti-inflammatory drugs, antineoplastics, and glucose 
metabolites were predicted to be potential regulators of the 12 shared miRNAs.
DISCUSSION: The network medicine approach integrating DEGs and miRNAs enabled 
the identification of shared, potentially deregulated biological processes and 
pathways underlying the pathophysiology of AD and T2D. These common molecular 
mechanisms were also linked to drugs currently used in clinical practice, 
suggesting that this strategy may inform future drug repurposing efforts. 
Nonetheless, further in-depth biological validation is required to confirm these 
findings.
CONCLUSION: Network medicine allowed identifying 12 miRNAs involved in the 
AD-T2D association, and these could be drug targets for the design of new 
treatments; however, the identified miRNAs need further experimental 
confirmation.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050393875250626065205
PMID: 40662549


67. Curr Neuropharmacol. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 10.2174/011570159X353727250314065140. 
Online ahead of print.

Neural Networks of Knowledge: Ontologies Pioneering Precision Medicine In 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Mittal P(1), Gautam RK(2), Sharma H(3), Goyal R(4), Malik G(4), Kapoor R(5), 
Sharma DK(6)(7), Kamal MA(8)(9)(10)(11), Shafiul H(12)(13), Rao SGN(14).

Author information:
(1)GITAM School of Pharmacy, GITAM (Deemed to be) University, Rudraram, 
Patancheru, Sangareddy Distt, Hyderabad, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Indore Institute of Pharmacy, IIST Campus, Rau, 
Indore, India.
(3)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, India.
(4)MM College of Pharmacy, Maharishi Markandeshwar (Deemed to be University), 
Mullana-Ambala, Haryana, 133207, India.
(5)Bristol Myers Squibb, Hyderabad, India.
(6)Department of Pharm Chemistry, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education Manipal, 576104, Karnataka, India.
(7)Department of Entomology and Nematology, UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, University of California Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616, 
USA.
(8)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, Princess Nourah 
bint Abdulrahman University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(9)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, Daffodil 
International University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(10)Centre for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical College and Hospital, 
Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, 
India.
(11)Department of Health Sciences, Faculty of Science, Novel Global Community 
Educational Foundation, Australia.
(12)Department of Nursing, Research and Scientific Studies Unit, College of 
Nursing and Allied Health Sciences, Jazan University, Jazan, 45142, Saudi 
Arabia.
(13)School of Medicine, Universidad Espiritu Santo, Samborondon, 091952, 
Ecuador.
(14)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, GITAM School of Pharmacy, GITAM 
(Deemed to be) University, Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, 53004, Rushikonda, 
India.

The review focuses on the ways that ontologies are revolutionising precision 
medicine in their effort to understand neurodegenerative illnesses. Ontologies, 
which are structured frameworks that outline the relationships between concepts 
in a certain field, offer a crucial foundation for combining different 
biological data. Novel insights into the construction of a precision medicine 
approach to treat neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are given by growing 
advancements in the area of pharmacogenomics. Affected parts of the central 
nervous system may develop neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's, 
Parkinson's, autism spectrum, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. 
These models allow for standard and helpful data marking, which is needed for 
crossdisciplinary study and teamwork. With case studies, you can see how 
ontologies have been used to find biomarkers, understand how sicknesses work, 
and make models for predicting how drugs will work and how the disease will get 
worse. For example, problems with data quality, meaning variety, and the need 
for constant changes to reflect the growing body of scientific knowledge are 
discussed in this review. It also looks at how semantic data can be mixed with 
cutting-edge computer methods such as artificial intelligence and machine 
learning to make brain disease diagnostic and prediction models more exact and 
accurate. These collaborative networks aim to identify patients at risk, 
identify patients in the preclinical or early stages of illness, and develop 
tailored preventative interventions to enhance patient quality of life and 
prognosis. They also seek to identify new, robust, and effective methods for 
these patient identification tasks. To this end, the current study has been 
considered to examine the essential components that may be part of precise and 
tailored therapy plans used for neurodegenerative illnesses.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/011570159X353727250314065140
PMID: 40662545


68. Stat Med. 2025 Jul;44(15-17):e70127. doi: 10.1002/sim.70127.

Integrating Misclassified EHR Outcomes With Validated Outcomes From a 
Non-Probability Sample.

Shen J(1), Isenberg D(1), Linn KA(1), Hubbard RA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, Perelman School 
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Brown University School of Public Health, 
Providence, Rhode Island, USA.

Although increasingly used for research, electronic health records (EHR) often 
lack a gold-standard assessment of key data elements. Linking EHRs to other data 
sources with higher-quality measurements can improve statistical inference, but 
such analyses must account for selection bias if the linked data source arises 
from a non-probability sample. We propose a set of novel estimators targeting 
the average treatment effect (ATE) that combine information from binary outcomes 
measured with error in a large, population-representative EHR database with 
gold-standard outcomes obtained from a smaller validation sample subject to 
selection bias. We evaluate our approach in extensive simulations and an 
analysis of data from the Adult Changes in Thought (ACT) study, a longitudinal 
study of incident dementia in a cohort of Kaiser Permanente Washington members 
with linked EHR data. For a subset of deceased ACT participants who consented to 
brain autopsy prior to death, gold-standard measures of Alzheimer's disease 
neuropathology are available. Our proposed estimators reduced bias and improved 
efficiency for the ATE, facilitating valid inference with EHR data when key data 
elements are ascertained with error.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.70127
PMID: 40662425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul 15:13872877251359642. doi:
10.1177/13872877251359642.  Online ahead of print.

New Alzheimer's association workgroup criteria underestimate syndromes in 
Alzheimer's disease definition.

Abbate C(1), Gallucci A(1).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Fondazione Don Carlo Gnocchi ONLUS, Milan, Italy.

The biological definition of Alzheimer's disease promoted by the Alzheimer's 
Association Working Group's new criteria relegates cognitive impairment to the 
background when defining the disease. However, cognitive syndromes, as plaques 
and tangles, are important biological phenomena, are part of the disease and not 
of the illness, and are objectively investigable. When well delineated, they 
show a close correlation with brain anatomy and neuropathology and are also few, 
relatively invariable, well-defined and well distinguishable from each other. 
Therefore, their detection retains a high value in suggesting the presence of 
the disease, which still must be confirmed by principle of exclusion.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251359642
PMID: 40662237


70. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul 15:13872877251359637. doi:
10.1177/13872877251359637.  Online ahead of print.

The gap between amyloid pathology and cognition.

Moser VA(1).

Author information:
(1)Board of Governors Regenerative Medicine Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical 
Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Nrf2 is a transcription factor critical for protecting the brain against 
oxidative stress and is decreased in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, making 
it a potential therapeutic target. The Curran lab previously identified a novel 
regulator, WDR23. Now, in a new study by Liu et al., they demonstrate that 
knocking out WDR23 in the 3xTg-AD mouse improves spatial working memory, 
interestingly, while increasing a measure of AD-like pathology. Their work 
brings up several interesting new questions and adds to a growing body of 
literature that highlights how the relationship between cognition and amyloid 
pathology is not as clearcut as once thought.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251359637
PMID: 40662230


71. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jun 30;17:1617980. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1617980.  eCollection 2025.

Intermittent supplementation with Akkermansia muciniphila and 
galactooligosaccharides modulates Alzheimer's disease progression, gut 
microbiota, and colon short-chain fatty acid profiles in mice.

Kunevičius A(#)(1), Vijaya AK(#)(1), Atzeni A(1), Mingaila J(1), Šimoliūnė I(1), 
Jamontas R(2), Keževičiūtė E(1), Gueimonde M(3), Meškys R(2), Baltriukienė D(1), 
Arboleya S(3), Burokas A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Models, Institute of Biochemistry, Life Sciences 
Center, Vilnius University, Vilnius, Lithuania.
(2)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, Institute of 
Biochemistry, Life Sciences Center, Vilnius University, Vilnius, Lithuania.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Biochemistry of Dairy Products, Dairy Research 
Institute IPLA-CSIC, Oviedo, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Bidirectional communication and mutual regulation between the 
gastrointestinal tract and the CNS is facilitated through the gut-brain axis. 
Recent studies have found reduced diversity of the gut microbiota in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) patients, and animal models suggest microbial involvement in 
amyloid beta peptide (Aβ) accumulation. Modulation of the gut microbiota by 
new-generation probiotics represents a novel treatment strategy to alleviate the 
symptoms and slow the progression of AD.
METHODS: In this study, the therapeutic effect of the probiotic Akkermansia 
muciniphila and the prebiotic galactooligosaccharides (GOS) was investigated in 
the APP/PS1 mouse model. After 7 months of triweekly administration, we 
evaluated physiological parameters, glucose metabolism, and behavioral outcomes. 
Additionally, we assessed gut microbiota diversity and composition, short-chain 
fatty acid (SCFA) concentrations in the cecum, Aβ load in the hippocampus and 
prefrontal cortex, and microglial abundance in the hippocampus.
RESULTS: A. muciniphila and GOS administration normalized fasting glucose 
levels, glucose metabolism, and intestinal transit time to wild-type levels. 
Furthermore, supplementation reduced anxiety, improved long-and short-term 
memory, and partially restored activity levels. It also regulated SCFA 
concentrations in the cecum, improved the richness of the gut microbiota, and 
normalized abundance of microglia in the hippocampus, indicating reduced 
neuroinflammation.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that long-term administration of A. 
muciniphila and GOS effectively improves metabolic health and modulates symptoms 
of AD in the APP/PS1 mouse model.

Copyright © 2025 Kunevičius, Vijaya, Atzeni, Mingaila, Šimoliūnė, Jamontas, 
Keževičiūtė, Gueimonde, Meškys, Baltriukienė, Arboleya and Burokas.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1617980
PMCID: PMC12256538
PMID: 40662084

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


72. Case Rep Infect Dis. 2025 Jul 2;2025:4053129. doi: 10.1155/crdi/4053129. 
eCollection 2025.

Perianesthetic Management in a Patient With Alzheimer's Disease Complicated With 
Pulmonary Infection Who Underwent Emergency Right Artificial Femoral Head 
Replacement Surgery: A Case Report and Review of the Literature.

Song W(1), Huang J(1)(2), Li Y(1)(2), Liu J(1)(2), Ding H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Shaanxi Provincial Hospital, Xi'an 710068, 
China.
(2)Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an 710068, China.

Background: Choosing the appropriate timing for surgery is a common clinical 
problem when hip fracture occurs in elderly patients with a variety of 
complications. Case Presentation: We present a fatal case involving an 
84-year-old male patient with bradycardia who underwent cardiac pacemaker 
implantation and presented with cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease, and 
pulmonary infection and had an American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) IV 
status; this patient underwent emergency right artificial femoral head 
replacement surgery. We strengthened our perioperative evaluation and 
monitoring, but the patient's condition did not improve after the operation. 
Conclusion: We utilized multidisciplinary consultation before the operation, 
attempted to improve the state of the patient before the operation, chose an 
appropriate anesthetic scheme during the operation, strengthened cardiopulmonary 
protections, and returned the patient to the ward safely after the operation; 
however, the patient did not recover well post operation.

Copyright © 2025 Wenying Song et al. Case Reports in Infectious Diseases 
published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1155/crdi/4053129
PMCID: PMC12259304
PMID: 40661834

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


73. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 15:2025.06.12.659424. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.12.659424.

Inhibition of Acyl-CoA: Cholesterol Acyltransferase 1 Promotes Shedding of 
Soluble TREM2 and LRP1-Dependent Phagocytosis of Amyloid β Protein in Microglia.

Hovde MJ, Maaser-Hecker A, Tanzi RE.

Lipid regulation plays a major role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). In AD patients and transgenic mice, microglia exhibit increased expression 
of SOAT1 , encoding Acyl-CoA: Cholesterol Acyltransferase 1 (ACAT1), which 
catalyzes the production of cholesteryl esters in lipid droplets. ACAT1 
Inhibition has been reported to reduce β-amyloid pathology. However, the 
molecular mechanism underlying this effect remains unknown. Here, we show ACAT1 
inhibition in mouse and human iPSC- derived microglia upregulates LRP1 levels 
and shedding of soluble TREM2 (sTREM2) owing to enhanced cleavage of TREM2 by 
ADAM10/17. Knocking out TREM2 or preventing sTREM2 release abrogated the ability 
of ACAT1 inhibition to enhance microglial uptake of amyloid β (Aβ). This could 
be rescued by the addition of recombinant sTREM2, but only in the presence of 
LRP1. Collectively, these data indicate ACAT1 inhibition increases microglial 
uptake of Aβ in a sTREM2- and LRP1-dependent manner suggesting new avenues for 
treating and preventing AD.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.12.659424
PMCID: PMC12259182
PMID: 40661651


74. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 15:2025.06.11.659008. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.11.659008.

Viral Infection Induces Alzheimer's Disease-Related Pathways and Senescence in 
iPSC-Derived Neuronal Models.

Hribkova H, Pospisilova V, Amruz Cerna K, Vanova T, Haviernik J, Sedmik J, 
Bernatik O, Olha J, Raska J, Cesnarikova S, Satkova M, Plesingrova K, Strakova 
P, Fortova A, Gresova K, Maragkakis M, Sadibolova M, Kupcik R, Fabrik I, 
Vajrychova M, Sheardova K, Ruzek D, Bohaciakova D.

INTRODUCTION: The Pathogen Infection Hypothesis proposes that β-Amyloid (Aβ) 
functions as an antimicrobial peptide, with pathogen-induced aggregation 
potentially contributing to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology.
METHODS: We used human iPSC-derived 2D neurons and 3D cerebral organoids from 
wild-type and familial AD ( PSEN1/2 mutant) lines to model acute infections with 
HSV-1 and TBEV and Aβ aggregation. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were 
conducted to assess molecular responses.
RESULTS: HSV-1, but not TBEV, induced robust Aβ clustering, which was, however, 
dependent on extracellular amyloid peptides. Transcriptomic profiling revealed 
widespread HSV-1-induced changes, including activation of 
neurodegeneration-related pathways. Proteomic profiling confirmed enrichment of 
neurodegeneration- and senescence-associated secretome signatures. PSEN1/2 
mutations did not alter the acute infection response. Reanalysis of independent 
datasets confirmed our findings and revealed a limited protective effect of 
acyclovir.
DISCUSSION: Results directly support the Pathogen Infection Hypothesis and 
suggest that preventing viral infections via vaccinations may represent a 
feasible approach to reducing AD risk.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.11.659008
PMCID: PMC12259118
PMID: 40661646


75. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 10:2025.06.10.658877. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.10.658877.

A spatial long-read approach at near-single-cell resolution reveals 
developmental regulation of splicing and polyadenylation sites in distinct 
cortical layers and cell types.

Foord C, Prjibelski AD, Hu W, Michielsen L, Vandelli A, Narykov O, Evans B, Hsu 
J, Belchikov N, Jarroux J, He Y, Elizabeth Ross M, Hajirasouliha I, Tartaglia 
GG, Korkin D, Tomescu AI, Tilgner HU.

Genome-wide single-cell and spatial long-read approaches have gained traction, 
but mostly lack single-cell resolution - and yield limited read lengths. Here, 
we introduce spatial ISOform sequencing (Spl-ISO-Seq), which reveals exons and 
polyadenylation sites from long reads with near-single-cell resolution. 
Spl-ISO-Seq selects long cDNAs and doubles to triples read lengths compared to 
standard preparations. Adding a highly specific software tool (Spl-ISOquant) and 
comparing human post-mortem pre-puberty samples of the visual cortex (8-11 
years) to post-puberty samples (16-19 years), we find that cortical layers 
harbor stronger splicing and poly(A)-site regulation than the adjacent white 
matter, with enrichment of multiple protein-domain types. For oligodendrocytes 
however, developmental splicing changes are stronger in white matter. Among 
cortical layers, layer 4 has the most developmental changes in alternative-exon 
inclusion in excitatory neurons and in poly(A) sites. We also find many repeat 
elements, especially ERV1 long terminal repeats downstream of 
developmentally-regulated layer 4 exons. Overall, alternative splicing changes 
are linked to synapses - specifically at the post-synapse. Age-linked splicing 
changes in layers 1-3 and 4 are associated with autism spectrum disorder but not 
with schizophrenia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. These 
results root developmental splicing changes during puberty and the resulting 
protein changes in specific layers and cell types. More generally, our new 
technologies enable new observations for any complex tissue.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.10.658877
PMCID: PMC12259066
PMID: 40661641


76. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 9:2025.06.06.658328. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.06.658328.

Accumulation of LRRK2-associated phospho-Rab12 degenerative lysosomes in 
tauopathies.

Buck SA, Malankhanova T, Ma EB, Yim S, Pratt HW, Ervin J, Wang SJ, Cohen TJ, 
West AB, Sanders LH.

Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenic mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 ( 
LRRK2 ) are associated with endolysosomal dysfunction across cell types, and 
carriers of LRRK2 mutations variably present with phosphorylated tau and 
α-synuclein deposits in post-mortem analysis. LRRK2 mutations increase the 
phosphorylation of Rab substrates including Rab12. Rab12 is expressed in 
neuronal and non-neuronal cells with localization to membranes in the 
endolysosomal compartment. Under lysosomal stress, LRRK2 interaction with Rab12 
upregulates LRRK2 kinase activity. In this study, using a recently developed 
monoclonal antibody directed to the LRRK2-mediated phosphorylation site on Rab12 
at amino acid Ser106 (pS106-Rab12), we test whether aberrant LRRK2 
phosphorylation is associated with tau and/or α-synuclein pathology across 
clinically distinct neurodegenerative diseases. Analysis of brain tissue lysates 
and immunohistochemistry of pathology-susceptible brain regions demonstrate that 
pS106-Rab12 levels are increased in Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), and PD, and in LRRK2 mutation carriers. In early pathological 
stages, phosphorylated Rab12 localizes to granulovacuolar degeneration bodies 
(GVBs), which are thought to be active lysosomal-like structures, in neurons. 
pS106-Rab12-positive GVBs accumulate with pathological tau across brain tissues 
in DLB, AD, and PD, and in LRRK2 mutation carriers. In a mouse model of 
tauopathy, pS106-Rab12 localizes to GVBs during early tau deposition in an 
age-dependent manner. While GVBs are largely absent in neurons with mature 
protein pathology, subsets of both tau and α-synuclein inclusions appear to 
incorporate pS106-Rab12 at later pathological stages. Finally, pS106-Rab12 
labels GVBs in neurons and shows widespread co-pathology with tau inclusions in 
primary tauopathies including Pick's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy and 
corticobasal degeneration. These results implicate LRRK2 kinase activity and Rab 
phosphorylation in endolysosomal dysfunction in both tau and 
α-synuclein-associated neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.06.658328
PMCID: PMC12258990
PMID: 40661559


77. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 14:2025.06.13.659525. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.13.659525.

Assessing the Suitability of Deubiquitylases As Substrates For Targeted Protein 
Degradation.

Tong J, Watkins JM, Burke JM, Kodadek T.

Deubiquitylases (DUBs) are a family of specialized proteases that hydrolyze the 
isopeptide bond between a lysine and the C-terminal carboxylate of Ubiquitin. 
DUBs are involved in a myriad of cellular processes and many are attractive drug 
targets. However, it has proven extremely difficult to develop selective 
inhibitors due to the high degree of homology between DUB active sites. Targeted 
protein degradation using a proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC) that 
recognizes the DUB in a less conserved region outside of the catalytic domain 
constitutes an attractive alternative strategy for selectively inhibiting a 
given DUB. Such ligands are unlikely to block the catalytic activity of the 
enzyme, raising the concern that auto-deubiqtuiylation will make DUBs inherently 
poor substrates for PROTACs of this type. Since drug-like ligands that engage 
DUBs outside of the active site are extremely rare, this issue is difficult to 
address in a straightforward fashion. In this study we establish a generally 
applicable chemical genetics workflow to evaluate the degradability of DUBs by a 
PROTAC. The data indicate that some DUBs are readily degradable and some are 
not. In particular, USP11, an attractive drug target in various cancers and 
Alzheimer's disease, is shown to be rapidly degradable, while its paralogs, USP4 
and USP15 resist degradation through auto-deubiquitylation.
SIGNIFICANCE: The development of selective inhibitors of Deubiquitylase enzymes 
(DUBs) is difficult due to a high level of homology in the active sites of the ≈ 
100 such enzymes in the human proteome. A potentially attractive strategy to 
achieve this goal would be to develop PROTACs or molecular glues that engage the 
target DUB in a less conserved region outside of the catalytic domain. However, 
this raises the concern that auto-deubiquitylation would make DUBs poor 
substrates for this modality. Here we describe a chemical genetics system to 
evaluate this issue. We find that some Dubs are readily degradable via the 
Ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and some are not. Of the latter category, some 
resist turnover through auto-deubiquitylation and some are simply poor 
proteasome substrates.
HIGHLIGHTS: Some active DUBs, including USP11 are vulnerable to targeted protein 
degradation by a PROTAC.Other DUBs, including USP4 and USP15, resist 
PROTAC-mediated degradation via auto-deubiquitylation.Some DUBs are poor 
substrates for targeted degradation because they are processed inefficiently by 
the proteasome.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.13.659525
PMCID: PMC12259181
PMID: 40661558


78. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 25:2025.05.22.655469. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.22.655469.

Age and Alzheimer's disease affect functional connectivity along separate axes 
of functional brain organization.

Rittmo J, Franzmeier N, Strandberg O, Chauveau L, Satterthwaite TD, Wisse LE, 
Spotorno N, Behjat HH, Dehsarvi A, van Westen D, Anijärv TE, Palmqvist S, 
Janelidze S, Stomrud E, Ossenkoppele R, Mattsson-Carlgren N, Hansson O, Vogel 
JW.

Aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are associated with alterations in functional 
connectivity (FC), yet their spatial and temporal characteristics remain 
debated. Whole-cortex functional gradients, which organize regions along axes of 
functional similarity, are positioned here as a framework for understanding such 
alterations. Across two independent cohorts (BioFINDER-2, N=973; ADNI, N=129), 
we demonstrate that hyper- and hypoconnectivity in both healthy aging and 
biomarker-confirmed AD progression coexist systematically, forming consistent 
spatial patterns that align with two distinct axes of brain organization. Using 
a combination of longitudinal and non-linear analyses, we show that the early 
(but not late) stages of AD pathology accumulation is associated with functional 
alteration along the sensory-association axis, a pattern that vanishes in later 
stages of AD. However, functional alteration along the sensory-association axis 
is associated with worse cognition throughout the AD spectrum, and even in older 
adults without AD pathology, suggesting that these FC patterns may reflect a 
general neural response to cognitive strain. Independently of AD, older age was 
associated with alterations instead along the executive-nonexecutive axis, a 
finding that was consistent throughout the adult lifespan. These findings 
highlight the fundamental role of intrinsic functional organization in shaping 
how the brain responds to aging and to AD, helping to resolve previously 
reported discrepancies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.22.655469
PMCID: PMC12258722
PMID: 40661536


79. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 9:2025.06.06.658383. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.06.658383.

Smelling the Risk: Early Olfactory Deficits, Brain Networks, and Blood Markers 
of Alzheimer's Disease Risk in Humanized APOE Mice.

Moon HS, Han ZY, Anderson RJ, Mahzarnia A, Stout J, Niculescu A, Tremblay J, 
Badea A.

Olfactory impairment is a hallmark of early Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the 
underlying mechanisms connecting sensory decline to genetic and environmental 
risk factors remain unclear. Our integrative analysis combines ethologically 
relevant olfactory behavior assays, high-resolution diffusion MRI connectomics, 
and blood transcriptomics in a large cohort of humanized APOE mice stratified by 
APOE genotype (APOE2, APOE3, APOE4), age, sex, high-fat diet, and immune 
background (HN). Behaviorally, APOE4 mice exhibited accelerated deficits in odor 
salience, novelty detection, and memory, especially when exposed to a high-fat 
diet, whereas APOE2 mice showed resilience (ANOVA: APOE x HN, F(2,1669)=77.25, 
p<0.001, eta squared effect size = 0.08). Notably, age and diet exerted 
compounding effects, with older and HFD-fed mice displaying reduced odor-guided 
exploration (diet x age: F(1,1669)=16.04, p<0.001, eta squared effect size = 
0.01). Memory analyses revealed robust genotype- and age-dependent impairments: 
at 24- and 48-hour delays, recognition indices were significantly lower in APOE4 
mice compared to APOE2 (long-term memory: APOE x HN, F(2,395)=5.6, p=0.004). 
Elastic Net-regularized multi-set canonical correlation analysis (MCCA) linked 
behavior to brain network substrates, revealing subnetworks whose connectivity 
explained up to 24 percent of behavioral variance (sum of canonical 
correlations: 1.27, 95% CI [1.18, 1.85], p<0.0001). High-weighted connections 
between the ventral orbital cortex, somatosensory cortex, and 
cerebellar-brainstem pathways were identified as critical nodes for risk or 
compensation. Integrative blood transcriptomics revealed eigengene modules 
strongly correlated with imaging changes in olfactory-memory circuits (for 
example, eigengene 2 vs. subiculum diffusivity: r = -0.5, p < 1e-30, explaining 
up to 24 percent of variance). Gene ontology analysis pinpointed shared pathways 
in synaptic signaling, translation, and metabolic regulation across brain and 
blood. Notably, glutamatergic and synaptic pathways were enriched among genes 
linking peripheral and central compartments. Collectively, these results 
demonstrate that olfactory behavior, quantitatively shaped by genotype, age, 
diet, and immune status, serves as a sensitive and translatable early biomarker 
of Alzheimer's disease risk. Our systems-level approach identifies specific 
brain networks and peripheral molecular signatures underlying sensory-cognitive 
vulnerability, providing a robust framework for early detection and targeted 
intervention in AD.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.06.658383
PMCID: PMC12258998
PMID: 40661485


80. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 23:2025.05.19.654834. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.19.654834.

Bisdemethoxycurcumin mitigates Alzheimer disease pathology through 
autophagy-mediated reduction of senescence and amyloid beta.

Khajuria P, Kour D, Sharma K, Singh L, Banoo R, Manhas D, Ramajayan P, Nandi U, 
Bharate S, Ahmed Z, Kumar A.

AD pathology is accompanied by increased senescence and reduced levels of 
autophagy in the brain. We investigated whether pharmacologically inducing 
autophagy could alter the senescent phenotype and help ameliorate AD pathology. 
We discovered that Bisdemethoxycurcumin (BDMC), a natural compound found in 
Curcuma longa , stimulates autophagy in primary astrocytes. We found that 
autophagy and senescence exhibit an inverse relationship in aging astrocytes, 
with increased expression of senescent proteins and downregulation of autophagic 
proteins. However, treatment of aged astrocytes with BDMC reversed the senescent 
phenotype by ameliorating the impaired autophagy. Interestingly, the senescent 
phenotype persisted when autophagy was downregulated by knockdown of AMPK . 
Additionally, BDMC-induced autophagy aided in the removal of amyloid beta that 
was administered externally to the astrocytes. Further, to validate these 
results in a mouse model of AD, we confirmed that BDMC can significantly 
penetrate the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in mice. Therefore, we administered 50 
and 100 mg/kg b.w. of BDMC to transgenic 3xTg-AD mice for two months. In their 
hippocampus, the Control 3xTg-AD animals showed more senescent cells and lower 
autophagy levels. In contrast, autophagic proteins were significantly 
upregulated while senescence indicators, such as senescence-associated secretory 
phenotype (SASP) proteins, were sharply downregulated in the brain of treated 
animals. Additionally, we discovered that the treated mice's hippocampus had a 
significantly lower amyloid beta load. These molecular changes in the brain were 
ultimately reflected in the improved working memory and neuromuscular 
coordination behavior of mice treated with BDMC. This study warrants further 
evaluation of BDMC for the management of AD.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.19.654834
PMCID: PMC12258734
PMID: 40661469


81. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 15:2025.06.13.659508. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.13.659508.

DCPS modulates TDP-43 mediated neurodegeneration through P-body regulation.

Ye Y, Zhang Z, Xiao Y, Zhu C, Wright N, Asbury J, Huang Y, Wang W, Gomez-Isaza 
L, Troncoso JC, He C, Sun S.

The proteinopathy of the RNA-binding protein TDP-43, characterized by nuclear 
clearance and cytoplasmic inclusion, is a hallmark of multiple neurodegenerative 
diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), frontotemporal dementia 
(FTD), and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Through CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) 
screening in human neurons, we identified the decapping enzyme scavenger (DCPS) 
as a novel genetic modifier of TDP-43 loss-of-function (LOF)-mediated 
neurotoxicity. Our findings reveal that TDP-43 LOF leads to aberrant mRNA 
degradation, via disrupting the properties and function of processing bodies 
(P-bodies). TDP-43 interacts with P-body component proteins, potentially 
influencing their dynamic equilibrium and assembly into ribonucleoprotein (RNP) 
granules. Reducing DCPS restores P-body integrity and RNA turnover, ultimately 
improving neuronal survival. Overall, this study highlights a novel role of 
TDP-43 in RNA processing through P-body regulation and identifies DCPS as a 
potential therapeutic target for TDP-43 proteinopathy-related neurodegenerative 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.13.659508
PMCID: PMC12259185
PMID: 40661462


82. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 22:2025.05.17.654675. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.17.654675.

The cholinergic drug galantamine ameliorates acute and subacute peripheral and 
brain manifestations of acute respiratory distress syndrome in mice.

Falvey A, Palandira SP, Chaudhry S, Tynan A, Consolim-Colombo FM, Metz CN, 
Brines M, Chang EH, Chavan SS, Tracey KJ, Pavlov VA.

Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a life-threatening form of acute 
lung injury (ALI), which is a common cause of respiratory failure and high 
mortality in critically ill patients. Long-term mortality and brain dysfunction 
have been documented in ARDS patients after hospital discharge. Inflammation 
plays a key role in ALI/ARDS pathogenesis. Neural cholinergic signaling 
regulates cytokine responses and inflammation. Here, we studied the effects of 
galantamine, an approved cholinergic drug (for Alzheimer's disease) on ALI/ARDS 
severity and inflammation in mice, using a clinically relevant mouse model 
induced by intratracheal administration of hydrochloric acid and 
lipopolysaccharide. Mice were treated 30 mins prior to each insult with vehicle 
or galantamine (4 mg/kg, i.p.). Galantamine treatment significantly decreased 
bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and serum TNF, IL-1β, and IL-6 levels, as well as 
BAL total protein and myeloperoxidase and lung histopathology in ALI/ARDS mice. 
In addition, galantamine improved the functional state of mice with ALI/ARDS 
during a 10-day monitoring and attenuated lung injury and indices of brain 
inflammation at 10 days. These findings support further studies utilizing this 
approved cholinergic drug in therapeutic strategies for ARDS and its subacute 
sequelae.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.17.654675
PMCID: PMC12258725
PMID: 40661460


83. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 15:2025.06.10.658747. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.10.658747.

Canagliflozin reprograms the aging hippocampus in genetically diverse UM-HET3 
mice and attenuates Alzheimer's-like pathology.

Jayarathne H, Manchanayake DH, Chimienti N, Kadri O, Gurdziel K, Kim S, Jang H, 
Ginsburg BC, Miller RA, Yakar S, Sadagurski M.

Aging is the strongest risk factor for cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), yet the mechanisms underlying brain aging and their modulation by 
pharmacological interventions remain poorly defined. The hippocampus, essential 
for learning and memory, is particularly vulnerable to metabolic stress and 
inflammation. Canagliflozin (Cana), an FDA-approved sodium-glucose 
co-transporter 2 inhibitor (SGLT2i) for type 2 diabetes, extends lifespan in 
male but not female mice, but its impact on brain aging is unknown. Here, we 
used a multi-omics strategy integrating transcriptomics, proteomics, and 
metabolomics to investigate how chronic Cana treatment reprograms brain aging in 
genetically diverse UM-HET3 mice. In males, Cana induced mitochondrial function, 
insulin and cGMP-PKG signaling, and suppressed neuroinflammatory networks across 
all molecular layers, resulting in improved hippocampal-dependent learning and 
memory. In females, transcriptional activation of neuroprotective pathways did 
not translate to protein or metabolite-level changes and failed to rescue 
cognition. In the 5xFAD AD model, Cana reduced amyloid plaque burden, 
microgliosis, and memory deficits in males only, despite comparable peripheral 
glucose improvements in both sexes. Our study reveals sex-specific remodeling of 
hippocampal aging by a clinically available SGLT2i, with implications for AD 
pathology and lifespan extension, and highlights Cana's potential to combat 
brain aging and AD through sex-specific mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.10.658747
PMCID: PMC12259070
PMID: 40661442


84. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 15:2025.06.12.658977. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.12.658977.

"Glutaminolysis Fuels Reactive Astrocytes, Exacerbating Amyloid Pathology in 
Alzheimer's Disease".

Devi SS, Heese SL, Leray I, Gallardo G.

Amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques with progressively increasing reactive astrocytes 
characterize Alzheimer's disease (AD). Reactive astrocytes are regulated by 
cellular and molecular mechanisms that are known to progress Aβ pathology. 
However, the metabolic adaptation and metabolites required to fuel these 
molecular changes in reactive astrocytes remain unknown. Using human AD samples, 
in vivo amyloid mouse models, and in vitro approaches, we demonstrate that 
reactive astrocytes utilize glutamine to fuel anaplerosis and meet their 
metabolic demands, thereby progressing amyloidosis. We show that reactive 
astrocytes increase Na + -coupled neutral amino acid transporters for glutamine 
uptake that are interdependent on Na + /K + ATPase. Furthermore, increasing 
brain-glutamine levels with a high-glutamine diet exacerbated reactive 
astrocytes, increasing Aβ burden in an amyloid mouse model. We demonstrate that 
glutamine undergoes glutaminolysis via glutaminase-2/glutamate dehydrogenase-1 
enzymes to be incorporated into TCA metabolites for anaplerosis. 
Pharmacologically or genetically blocking glutaminolysis reduces reactive 
astrocytes and decreases Aβ pathology in an amyloid mouse. Our findings reveal 
the first glutamine-dependent metabolic adaptation of reactive astrocytes 
affecting Aβ pathology, which may be harnessed for AD therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.12.658977
PMCID: PMC12259121
PMID: 40661425


85. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 8:2025.06.04.657953. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.04.657953.

Nociceptin receptor and ligand in Alzheimer's disease: Implications for 
psychiatric symptoms and circadian regulation.

Vogelgsang J, Gregoy S, Smith GW, Abston J, Kuhn M, Pizzagalli DA, Berretta S.

BACKGROUND: Nociceptin (N/OFQ) and its receptor OPRL1 play crucial roles in 
emotional processing, reward-related behaviors, learning, and neurotransmitter 
regulation, but their involvement in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology remains 
poorly understood. This study investigated possible relationships between 
prepronociceptin ( PNOC ) and OPRL1 expression and psychiatric symptoms in AD, 
utilizing Natural Language Processing (NLP) to assess Research Domain Criteria 
(RDoC) domains.
METHODS: Post-mortem brain tissue from the dorsal anterior cingulate gyrus 
(BA32) was analyzed in 61 donors across different Braak and Braak (B&B) stages. 
RNA expression of PNOC and OPRL1 was quantified and correlated with RDoC scores 
derived from medical records using NLP. Sex-stratified analyses, circadian 
rhythmicity analysis, and cell-type specific expression patterns were examined.
RESULTS: Both genes showed significant downregulation in AD cases ( PNOC : p = 
0.024; OPRL1 : p < 0.001), with notable sex differences. Men displayed higher 
post-mortem PNOC (Cohen's d = -0.482) and OPRL1 (Cohen's d = -0.237) expression 
compared to women. In adjusted models controlling for B&B stage and post-mortem 
interval, PNOC expression significantly correlated with dimensional scores of 
positive valence (β = -0.38, p = 0.035) and arousal regulatory systems (β = 
-0.43, p = 0.015) derived from a text classification algorithm applied to 
medical records. OPRL1 showed disrupted circadian rhythmicity in AD cases (p = 
0.151 vs. p = 0.020 in controls).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest distinct roles for PNOC and OPRL1 in AD 
pathology, with PNOC primarily associated with psychiatric symptoms and OPRL1 
showing disrupted circadian regulation. Sex-specific expression patterns further 
indicate the need for personalized therapeutic approaches targeting the 
nociceptin system.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.04.657953
PMCID: PMC12258952
PMID: 40661403


86. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 13:2025.06.11.659207. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.11.659207.

Boolean Network Modeling Identifies Cognitive Resilience in the First Murine 
Model of Asymptomatic Alzheimer's Disease.

Jati S, Taheri S, Kal S, Sinha SC, Head BP, Mahata SK, Sahoo D.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder defined by 
amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), yet approximately 
20-30% of aged individuals exhibit these hallmark lesions without developing 
cognitive impairment-a clinically silent condition termed asymptomatic AD 
(AsymAD). The molecular basis of this cognitive resilience remains poorly 
understood due to a lack of mechanistic models. Here, we integrate systems-level 
Boolean network modeling with in vivo validation to define the transcriptomic 
logic of AsymAD and uncover a novel preclinical model. Using Boolean implication 
networks trained on large-scale human cortical RNA-seq datasets, we identified a 
robust and invariant AD gene signature that accurately stratifies disease states 
across independent datasets. Application of this signature to Chromogranin A- 
deficient PS19 mice (CgA-KO/PS19) revealed a unique resilience phenotype: male 
mice developed AD-like molecular and neuropathological profiles in the 
pre-frontal cortex yet retained intact learning and memory. Female CgA-KO/PS19 
mice displayed even greater protection, including reduced Tau phosphorylation 
and preserved synaptic ultrastructure. These findings establish the first 
validated murine model of AsymAD and identify CgA as a modifiable node linking 
neuroendocrine signaling, Tauopathy, and cognitive preservation. This work 
provides a scalable platform to probe sex-specific resilience, uncover 
early-stage biomarkers, and accelerate preventive therapeutic development in AD.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.11.659207
PMCID: PMC12259141
PMID: 40661391


87. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 7:2025.06.03.657761. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.03.657761.

Uncovering Heterogeneous Effects via Localized Feature Selection.

Liu X, Gu J, Chen Z, Chu B, Liu L, Morrison T, Butler RR, Edelson J, Li J, Longo 
FM, Tang H, Ionita-Laza I, Sabatti C, Candès E, He Z.

Identifying features that interact to trigger disease, while accounting for 
heterogeneity across diverse populations, is essential for the development of 
precision and targeted medicine. Despite the availability of vast and complex 
health-related datasets, most existing works focus on identifying 
disease-associated features at the population level or within a few 
subpopulations, often overlooking individual-level heterogeneity within these 
groups. To address this limitation, we propose a novel framework that utilizes 
localized test statistics to identify disease-associated features tailored to 
individual profiles. Our method leverages the recently developed knockoffs 
methodology to control the noise level of the selection set so that the results 
are replicable. Moreover, it allows for the discovery of hidden heterogeneous 
effects within the data, as demonstrated in an application to single-cell RNA 
sequencing data for Alzheimer's disease. By aggregating localized feature 
selection results, our framework also enables powerful population-level feature 
selection. Our framework provides a powerful tool for exploratory studies of 
precision medicine, offering the potential to generate novel hypotheses for 
confirmatory biological experiments.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.03.657761
PMCID: PMC12258879
PMID: 40661389


88. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 13:2025.06.10.658994. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.10.658994.

Multiplex Proteomics of Lewy Body Dementia Reveals Cerebrospinal Fluid 
Biomarkers of Disease Pathology and Progression.

Higginbotham L, Shantaraman A, Guo Q, Fox EJ, Bagchi P, Wu F, Lah JJ, Levey AI, 
Seyfried NT.

Lewy body dementia (LBD), which encompasses Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) 
and Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), currently lacks established biofluid 
markers reflective of its complex molecular pathophysiology. Multiplex proteomic 
tools, such as the recently released NUcleic acid Linked ImmunoSandwich Assay 
(NULISA TM ), can simultaneously assess a diverse array of neurodegenerative 
targets and address this critical biomarker gap. We used the NULISA CNS disease 
panel to analyze 852 baseline and longitudinal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples 
from control, PD without cognitive impairment (PD-NCI), PD with cognitive 
impairment (PD-CI), DLB, and Alzheimer's disease (AD) subjects. A subset of 
control and DLB cases also had alpha-synuclein seed amplification assay 
(αSyn-SAA) results. Of the 124 panel markers analyzed, nearly half ( n =53) were 
significantly altered in PD-CI and/or DLB compared to controls. Of these 
LBD-associated targets, 12 demonstrated divergent abundance trends in AD. 
Alpha-synuclein (SNCA) as measured by NULISA did not change across clinical LBD 
diagnoses but was among proteins significantly altered in subgroup comparisons 
of SAA+ and SAA-cases. Longitudinal analysis revealed five proteins (NEFL, NRGN, 
CCL26, CRH, PGF) with baseline changes indicative of subsequent cognitive 
progression. Machine learning identified a series of panels, each comprising 
only 10 markers, capable of discriminating clinical diagnoses and SAA positivity 
with high accuracy (AUC > 0.89). Overall, our results highlight the utility of 
NULISA multiplex proteomic analysis in the identification of diagnostic and 
prognostic CSF biomarkers of LBD that reflect its diverse molecular 
pathophysiology.
ONE SENTENCE SUMMARY: This multiplex proteomic analysis using the recently 
released NULISA platform revealed unique targets of Lewy body dementia pathology 
and progression.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.10.658994
PMCID: PMC12259125
PMID: 40661363


89. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 9:2025.06.06.656900. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.06.656900.

Brain-derived extracellular vesicle microRNAs in Lewy body and Alzheimer's 
disease.

Yang SJ, Lin AA, Shen H, Pappalardo LW, Spychalski GB, Rosario J, Forsberg LK, 
Grant KM, Savica R, O'Bryant S, Jones DT, Dickson DW, Reichard RR, Nguyen AT, 
Meaney DF, Boeve BF, Ross OA, McLean PJ, Issadore D.

INTRODUCTION: Robust plasma-based biomarkers to distinguish Lewy body disease 
(LBD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are currently lacking. We applied track-etch 
magnetic nanopore (TENPO) sorting for enrichment of brain-derived extracellular 
vesicle (EV) signatures as potential biomarkers to address this gap.
METHODS: We analyzed plasma from 137 autopsy-confirmed patients [30 LBD, 31 AD, 
30 AD/LBD, 19 AD with amygdala Lewy bodies (AD/ALB), and 27 controls], 
sequencing miRNAs from TENPO-isolated GluR2-positive (neuron-enriched) and 
GLAST-positive (astrocyte-enriched) EVs, and measuring plasma proteins (Aβ40, 
Aβ42, tau, p-Tau181, p-Tau231) via SIMOA.
RESULTS: We identified 16 GluR2+, 8 GLAST+, and 4 protein biomarkers with 
differential expression (false discovery rate-corrected P value < .1) between 
LBD and AD. A multimodal 15-feature panel classified LBD versus AD with 10-fold 
cross-validated accuracy = 0.95 and area under the curve (AUC) = 0.96.
DISCUSSION: Brain-derived EVs offer accurate and accessible miRNA biomarkers for 
the differential diagnosis of LBD and AD.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.06.656900
PMCID: PMC12258949
PMID: 40661348


90. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 13:2025.06.09.658686. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.09.658686.

White matter micro- and macrostructural properties in midlife individuals at 
risk for Alzheimer's disease: Associations with sex and menopausal status.

Raikes AC, Dyke JP, Nerattini M, Boneu C, Ajila T, Fauci F, Battista M, 
Pahlajani S, Williams S, Brinton RD, Mosconi L.

Women are at greater lifetime risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD), potentially due 
to midlife fractional anisotropy (FA) and lower mean diffusivity in fornix and 
corpus callosum, indicating more densely organized white matter. Perimenopausal 
women were the exception, with white matter profiles closely resembling those of 
men. Perimenopausal women exhibited minimal or absent fiber cross-section and 
FDC sex differences and a reversal of the fornix FA advantage observed in pre- 
and postmenopausal women. These cross-sectional results are consistent with sex 
differences in white matter organization. Importantly, the perimenopause emerges 
as a critical window of neural reorganization in the female midlife aging brain 
characterized by temporary convergence toward male-like white matter 
organization. Longitudinal analyses are key to identifying women who do or do 
not revert to a premenopausal profile, which may inform AD risk.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.09.658686
PMCID: PMC12259052
PMID: 40661344


91. Brain Commun. 2025 Jun 30;7(4):fcaf259. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf259. 
eCollection 2025.

Sink-index: a network-based EEG marker for frontotemporal dementia and 
Alzheimer's disease.

Sanchez LA(1), Pandiaraju S(1), Williams AO(1), Daraie AH(1), Onyike CU(2), 
Sarma SV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Frontotemporal dementia is a complex neurodegenerative illness characterized by 
a progressive deterioration in temperament, judgement, behaviour, and 
communication. Misdiagnosis and late diagnosis occur frequently due to the 
complexity of the phenotypes, overlaps of features with other neurodegenerative 
syndromes and psychiatric disorders, and ill-defined preclinical phases of the 
illness. Diagnosis relies on structural or functional brain imaging to show 
characteristic atrophy, hypoperfusion or hypometabolism profiles. The 
sensitivity of neuroimaging is lower in the earliest phases of the illness, and 
there are few alternatives. Scalp electroencephalography (EEG) is a widely 
available, low-cost technology, but its utility in the differential diagnosis of 
dementia will require EEG indices of high sensitivity and discriminatory value. 
We have used scalp EEG to develop subject-specific Dynamic Network Models, from 
which we summarize the reciprocal relationships between the nodes (defined by 
the EEG channel). This index, the 'Sink-Index', characterizes how activity in 
each node (or channel) responds to activity in other nodes in the network. In 
this context, 'sources' are nodes that exert significant influence on the 
activity of different regions but are not themselves influenced, whereas 'sinks' 
represent influenced regions that do not affect activity in others. We 
hypothesized that brain regions associated with Frontotemporal dementia and 
Alzheimer's disease syndromes behave as sinks and have higher sink indices than 
healthy brain regions. This hypothesis was tested in a cohort of 88 subjects: 23 
with frontotemporal dementia, 36 with Alzheimer's disease, and 29 healthy 
controls. The Sink-Index of nodes in the frontal-temporal and 
central-parietal-occipital brain regions differed between Frontotemporal 
dementia (1.3389 ± 0.0895 versus 0.8444 ± 0.0651), Alzheimer's disease (0.6015 ± 
0.0188 versus 0.7766 ± 0.0158), and healthy controls (0.8978 ± 0.0453 versus 
0.9116 ± 0.0457). These findings suggest the Sink-Index is an EEG marker with 
utility for the differential diagnosis of dementia syndromes.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf259
PMCID: PMC12256813
PMID: 40661328

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests.


92. Front Mol Biosci. 2025 Jun 30;12:1634302. doi: 10.3389/fmolb.2025.1634302. 
eCollection 2025.

Estrogen, menopause, and Alzheimer's disease: understanding the link to 
cognitive decline in women.

Mervosh N(1), Devi G(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Park Avenue Neurology, New York, NY, United States.
(2)Departments of Neurology, Zucker School of Medicine, Northwell Health, New 
York, NY, United States.
(3)Departments of Psychiatry, Zucker School of Medicine, Northwell Health, New 
York, NY, United States.

BACKGROUND: Women face a significantly higher lifetime risk of developing 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) than men. This disparity is often attributed to longer 
female longevity, but growing evidence suggests a multifactorial origin, 
including hormonal, vascular, and immunologic contributions. Estrogen plays a 
critical neuroprotective role across multiple systems implicated in AD 
pathogenesis, including synaptic plasticity, mitochondrial function, and 
cerebrovascular integrity. However, clinical trials investigating hormone 
therapy (HT) for AD prevention have yielded mixed results, in part due to 
variability in study populations, timing of intervention, and formulation of 
hormones.
AIMS/METHODS: This review examines the biological rationale for estrogen's role 
in cognitive aging, synthesizes clinical and translational data on hormone 
therapy and AD risk, and highlights the importance of vascular comorbidity, 
including cerebral small vessel disease, in mediating AD pathology.
CONCLUSION: We propose that estrogen's neuroprotective potential may be best 
realized in personalized treatment frameworks that account for age, timing, APOE 
genotype, and vascular burden. Interpretation of estrogen's role in AD is 
further complicated by variability in diagnostic criteria, which may contribute 
to conflicting findings across studies. Recognition of menopause-related 
cognitive impairment as an early, hormonally modulated risk state may offer 
additional opportunity for timely intervention. Addressing this complexity is 
essential to refining AD prevention strategies in midlife women.

Copyright © 2025 Mervosh and Devi.

DOI: 10.3389/fmolb.2025.1634302
PMCID: PMC12256231
PMID: 40661313

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


93. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 23:2025.05.22.25328181. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.22.25328181.

Biological Age and Age Acceleration Predict Alzheimer's Disease Plasma Biomarker 
Levels.

Eissman JM, Ma Y, Qiao M, Reyes-Dumeyer D, Piriz A, Lee AJ, Lantigua RA, Medrano 
M, Mejia DR, Honig LS, Grodstein F, Bennett DA, De Jager PL, Dalgard CL, Mayeux 
R, Vardarajan BN.

Epigenetic clocks can predict pathological aging associated with Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) risk, albeit findings are mixed regarding if clocks are predictive 
in blood and in non-European populations. We constructed epigenetic clocks from 
blood methylation data in 704 older Hispanic adults and tested the association 
with a clinical diagnosis of AD and plasma biomarker levels. Biological age and 
age acceleration, the rate of biological aging, were significantly associated 
with sex, clinical diagnosis, and levels of eight plasma biomarkers, including 
P-Tau217 levels. Additionally, biomarker associations trended more significant 
among APOE -ε4 non-carriers. We also identified that methylation levels in CD4 
and CD8 T-cell types are associated with biological aging and showed slightly 
stronger associations in men. We demonstrate that biological aging, in blood, in 
a Hispanic cohort of both demented and non-demented individuals, can stratify AD 
risk, predicting plasma biomarker levels even in preclinical disease.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.22.25328181
PMCID: PMC12258738
PMID: 40661306


94. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 21:2025.05.21.25328062. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.21.25328062.

Predicting conversion from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease 
using a Vision Transformer and hippocampal MRI slices.

Seiger R, Fierlinger P; Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been the standard for computer vision 
tasks and are frequently applied in medical conditions, such as in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Recently, Vision Transformers (ViTs) have been introduced, which 
provide a strong alternative to CNNs by discarding the convolution approach in 
favor of the attention mechanism. This allows modeling global and distant 
relationships within distinct parts of an image without relying on the strong 
inductive biases present in CNNs. A common precursor stage of AD is a syndrome 
called mild cognitive impairment (MCI). However, not all individuals diagnosed 
with MCI progress to AD. The establishment of reliable classification models 
that predict converters versus non-converters would be a valuable tool to 
support clinical decision-making, such as enabling early treatment. Hence, in 
this investigation a transfer learning approach was used by applying a 
pretrained ViT model, fine-tuned on the ADNI dataset comprising 575 subjects 
with MCI. We included baseline T1-weighted structural MRI data from 299 stable 
MCI and 276 progressive MCI individuals, who developed Alzheimer's disease 
within 36 months. Inputs to the model were three normalized axial slices 
covering areas of the hippocampal region, consisting of the combined gray and 
white matter segmentations. The final model was evaluated over multiple runs to 
obtain stable performance estimates, yielding an average area under the receiver 
operating characteristic curve (AUC-ROC) on the test set of 0.74 ± 0.02 (mean ± 
SD), an accuracy of 0.69 ± 0.03, a sensitivity of 0.65 ± 0.07, a specificity of 
0.72 ± 0.06, and a F1-score for the pMCI class of 0.67 ± 0.04. By specifically 
focusing on axial slices covering the hippocampal region, we aimed to target the 
brain structure often reported as being the first affected by the disease, while 
our results indicate that a ViT approach achieves reasonable classification 
accuracy for predicting the conversion from MCI to AD.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.21.25328062
PMCID: PMC12258745
PMID: 40661291


95. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 21:2025.05.19.25327923. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.19.25327923.

Cognitive and Neuroimaging for Neurodegenerative Disorders: A Cohort Study 
Design with Initial Findings.

Hosseini AA, Shao B, Lee AR, Dhillon P, Junaid K, Gran B, Sellars P, Sargisson 
H, Jung J, Mukaetova-Ladinska E.

Introduction: Dementia presents with significant heterogeneity across age 
groups, particularly in early-onset cognitive decline (EOCD), which poses 
diagnostic and management challenges. The Cognitive and Neuroimaging for 
Neurodegenerative Disorders (CogNID) study aims to characterise clinical, 
cognitive, neuroimaging, and biomarker features across a diverse cohort of 
individuals with cognitive impairment, with a focus on diagnostic complexity, 
biomarker utility, and mortality. Methods: Out of 680 study participants within 
this prospective cohort enrolled from the real-world clinics within the National 
Health Service, who consented to take part in the study, we analysed data from 
429 individuals recruited between December 2018 and November 2024 from the 
Memory Clinics, including the young-onset dementia service and associated 
services. Participants underwent structured cognitive assessments, neuroimaging 
(MRI/CT), and Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker evaluation, where available. 
Diagnoses were made by multidisciplinary consensus. Group comparisons were 
conducted between early-onset (EOCD, <65 years) and late-onset cognitive decline 
(LOCD, ≥65 years). Results: Of the 429 participants, 349 (81.4%) had EOCD and 80 
(18.6%) had LOCD. The mean age was 60.05 years, with no significant difference 
in sex or ethnicity across groups. Depression and anxiety were common (29.6%), 
as were cardiovascular risk factors. Lumbar punctures were more frequently 
performed in EOCD (p = 0.03), with 36.4% of tested participants demonstrating 
biomarker profiles consistent with Alzheimer's disease (A+T+). Functional 
cognitive disorder (FCD) was more common in EOCD (22.3% vs. 5.0%, p < 0.001). 
Subgroup analysis revealed significantly lower ACE-III scores and higher 
pathological CSF findings in Alzheimer's disease versus FCD. Mortality was 
higher in the LOCD group (11.3% vs. 4.6%, p = 0.03). Conclusion: The CogNID 
study highlights the clinical and diagnostic heterogeneity of individuals with 
cognitive impairment, particularly in younger adults. Incorporating neuroimaging 
and CSF biomarkers into routine clinical pathways enhances diagnostic precision 
and reveals distinct phenotypic profiles between EOCD and LOCD. These findings 
underscore the need for harmonised diagnostic protocols, broader biomarker 
accessibility, and inclusive recruitment strategies in dementia research and 
clinical services.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.19.25327923
PMCID: PMC12258771
PMID: 40661287


96. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 22:2025.05.19.25327619. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.19.25327619.

The NIH Toolbox Emotion Battery and Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers in 
Alzheimer's Disease: Findings from the Multisite ARMADA Study.

Yu K, Gatchel JR, Ho EH, Hajjar I, Arnold SE, Marshall GA, Dodge HH.

OBJECTIVES: Investigating the relationships between socioemotional functioning 
and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) pathology can contribute to screening and early 
detection of AD. This study explored the associations between socioemotional 
functioning and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) AD biomarkers in older adults.
METHODS: We used baseline data from the Advancing Reliable Measurement in 
Alzheimer's Disease and Cognitive Aging (ARMADA) study. ARMADA is a multisite 
study with independent protocols for CSF assays at each site. The available 
sample size with comparable CSF assays had 31 participants with normal cognition 
(NC) and 28 with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) or early-stage AD 
dementia. CSF-derived AD biomarkers included were: phosphorylated-tau 181 
(p-Tau181), total tau (t-Tau), Aβ42, Aβ42/40 ratio, and p-Tau181/Aβ42 ratio. 
Socioemotional functioning (negative affect, psychological wellbeing, and social 
satisfaction) was measured with the self-reported NIH Toolbox Emotion Battery 
(NIHTB-EB). We ran linear regressions by cognitive subgroups (NC and 
aMCI/early-stage AD).
RESULTS: Among participants with NC, lower social satisfaction was associated 
with higher p-Tau181 and t-Tau; higher t-Tau was additionally associated with 
more negative affect. None of the CSF AD biomarkers were associated with the 
NIHTB-EB outcomes among participants with aMCI or early-stage AD.
DISCUSSION: These findings suggest that socioemotional functioning may be 
associated with tau pathology. Markers for amyloid were not related to 
socioemotional functioning regardless of disease stages. Future studies with 
larger, more diverse samples and harmonized CSF assay protocols are needed to 
further examine the role of early socioemotional change in early detection and 
prevention of dementia.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.19.25327619
PMCID: PMC12258781
PMID: 40661275


97. Biomed Res Int. 2025 Jul 7;2025:8892801. doi: 10.1155/bmri/8892801.
eCollection  2025.

Unveiling the Therapeutic Potential of Piper chaba Hunter: Computational 
Approaches Shed Light on Targeting Proteins in Alzheimer's Disease.

Rahi MS(1), Rahman MS(1)(2), Meem RI(1)(2), Shimul MEK(1)(2), Farnaj N(1)(2), 
Kabir MH(3), Ahmed FF(4), Parvez MAK(5), Huq MA(6), Kabir T(7), Harrath AH(8), 
Hasan M(1), Rahman MA(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, Jashore University of 
Science and Technology, Jashore, Bangladesh.
(2)Bioinformatics and Microbial Biotechnology Laboratory, Department of Genetic 
Engineering and Biotechnology, Jashore University of Science and Technology, 
Jashore, Bangladesh.
(3)Department of Physics, Jashore University of Science and Technology, Jashore, 
Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Mathematics, Jashore University of Science and Technology, 
Jashore, Bangladesh.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Jahangirnagar University, Savar, Bangladesh.
(6)Department of Life Sciences, College of BioNano Technology, Gachon 
University, Seongnam, Republic of Korea.
(7)M Abdur Rahim Medical College Hospital, Dinajpur, Bangladesh.
(8)Department of Zoology, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.
(9)Global Biotechnology & Biomedical Research Network (GBBRN), Department of 
Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Islamic 
University, Kushtia, Bangladesh.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, while the 
existing treatments primarily focus on alleviating symptoms rather than 
addressing the underlying pathophysiology. Seeking a safer alternative, the 
study explores the potential of Piper chaba Hunter as a promising drug lead for 
AD by eliciting the major signaling pathway, key players, and their interaction 
with phytochemicals from the plant extract. Initially, the phytochemicals in the 
P. chaba crude extract were identified using GC-MS, and their physicochemical 
properties were verified using SwissADME. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) and 
signaling pathways-target proteins-compounds (STC) networks were analyzed to dig 
out target proteins and effective compounds for AD based on rigorous screening. 
Approximately 60 target proteins that interacted with GC-MS-identified compounds 
underwent PPI and STC networking which identified five compounds, a signaling 
pathway, and three target proteins with therapeutic potential. Three compounds, 
namely, bicyclo[7.2.0]undec-4-ene, 
4,11,11-trimethyl-8-methylene-,[1R-(1R∗,4Z,9S∗)], 2-methoxybenzoic acid, 
2,3-dichlorophenyl ester, and 
(E)-3-butylidene-4,5-dihydroisobenzofuran-1(3H)-one, have the potential to 
modulate PTGS2, PLA2G4A, and CYP2C19 within metabolic signaling pathway, thus 
serving as promising therapeutic agents. Moreover, the drug likeliness and 
efficacy of those phytochemicals were justified by molecular docking tests 
(MDTs), molecular dynamics simulations (MDSs), and quantum chemistry analyses, 
which confirmed their ability to inhibit key targets to mitigate AD-associated 
pathology.

Copyright © 2025 Md. Sifat Rahi et al. BioMed Research International published 
by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1155/bmri/8892801
PMCID: PMC12259330
PMID: 40661231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


98. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Jun 30;16:1561702. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1561702. 
eCollection 2025.

Integrative approaches in Alzheimer's disease: evaluating the potential of 
traditional, complementary, and integrative medicine (TCIM).

Sneha Sri R(1), Pavithra T(1), Vinciya T(1), Santhosh Kumar V(1), Harikrishnan 
N(2), Begum RF(3), Ankul Singh S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Dr. M.G.R. Educational and Research Institute, 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, Dr. M.G.R. Educational and Research 
Institute, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, GLA University, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, 
India.

This review explores the potential of Traditional, Complementary, and 
Integrative Medicine (TCIM) as an adjunct to conventional therapies for 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Unlike pharmaceutical treatments that primarily offer 
symptomatic relief, TCIM encompasses holistic approaches that target multiple 
pathophysiological pathways involved in AD, including tau pathology, oxidative 
stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and neuroinflammation. Herbal therapies such 
as Withania somnifera, Ginkgo biloba, and Curcuma longa have shown promising 
neuroprotective effects in preclinical and limited clinical studies. Mind-body 
practices like Kirtan Kriya meditation have also demonstrated stress-reduction 
benefits, addressing modifiable risk factors for AD. While current evidence 
highlights the potential of TCIM interventions to complement standard care, 
rigorous validation through high-quality randomized controlled trials remains 
essential. This review underscores the need for integrative, personalized 
approaches that synergize traditional and modern medical systems to enhance 
therapeutic outcomes in AD.

Copyright © 2025 Sneha Sri, Pavithra, Vinciya, Santhosh Kumar, Harikrishnan, 
Begum and Ankul Singh.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1561702
PMCID: PMC12256855
PMID: 40661073

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


99. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul 15:13872877251360028. doi:
10.1177/13872877251360028.  Online ahead of print.

Cohort profile: China healthy aging cohort study (China-Aging).

Chang J(1), Wu Y(2)(3), Zhao Y(4), Gao X(4), Xing Y(5), Wang Z(4), Qin Q(4), Ni 
W(6), Ying Y(7), Liu X(8), Leng L(8), Zhou H(7), Ma L(5), Guo Y(2)(3), Peng 
G(8), You Y(9), Petersen JD(9)(10)(11)(12), Xu J(6), Tang Y(1)(4)(13).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Neurological Disorders, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Geriatric Healthcare and Disease Prevention Center, Xuanwu Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(3)Evidence-Based Medicine Center, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Neurology & Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(5)Department of Geriatrics, National Research Center for Geriatric Medicine, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(6)Department of Elderly Health Management, Shenzhen Center for Chronic Disease 
Control, Shenzhen, China.
(7)College of Biomedical Engineering & Instrument Science, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(8)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(9)Department of Neurology, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Hainan Medical 
University, Haikou, China.
(10)School of Public Health, Key Laboratory of Tropical Translational Medicine 
of Ministry of Education, Hainan Medical University, Haikou, China.
(11)Research Unit for General Practice, Department of Public Health, University 
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(12)Research Unit for General Practice, Department of Public Health, University 
of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(13)Neurodegenerative Laboratory of Ministry of Education of the People's 
Republic of China, Beijing, China.

BackgroundAs China undergoes a demographic transition towards an aging society, 
the prevalence and incidence of age-related disabilities, Alzheimer's disease, 
and various geriatric syndromes are steadily rising.ObjectiveThe China Healthy 
Aging Cohort Study (China-Aging) aims to investigate the prevalence and 
associated risk factors of disability and cognitive impairment, and to develop 
predictive models for these conditions by combining traditional risk factors 
with artificial intelligence-derived metrics (such as gait, speech, vision, 
etc.).MethodsThe China-Aging cohort consists of community-dwelling participants 
aged 60 years and older from Beijing, Hangzhou, Shenzhen, and Haikou. The 
baseline recruitment was from May 16, 2022 to March 19, 2025, with study 
participants primarily from urban areas. Follow-up assessment of the cohort will 
occur every 1-3 years from the baseline.ResultsAmong 6283 participants who 
completed the baseline evaluation (mean age 70.6 years, SD 6.3), 3775 (60.1%) 
were women. The overall prevalence of disability, cognitive impairment, frailty, 
depression, and sarcopenia were 17.8%, 18.5%, 5.9%, 7.1%, and 5.7%, 
respectively. The prevalence of disability in the Beijing cohort was higher than 
in other cohorts (Beijing: 35.6%, Hangzhou: 6.5%, Shenzhen: 6.8%, Haikou: 10.9%) 
and the prevalence of cognitive impairment in the Haikou cohort was higher than 
in other cohorts (Beijing: 9.5%, Hangzhou: 7.9%, Shenzhen: 16.2%, Haikou: 
45.5%).ConclusionsThe prevalence of disability and cognitive impairment is 
relatively high, and notable regional difference exists in China. China-Aging 
cohort provides crucial evidence for the precise prevention and management of 
disability, cognitive impairment, and other geriatric syndromes in promoting 
active and healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251360028
PMID: 40660850


100. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul 15:13872877251350306. doi:
10.1177/13872877251350306.  Online ahead of print.

Alzheimer's disease classification using mutual information generated graph 
convolutional network for functional MRI.

Fu Y(1), Jiang L(1), Detre J(2), Wang Z(1); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, University of 
Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Neurology and Radiology, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

BackgroundHigh-order cognitive functions depend on collaborative actions and 
information exchange between multiple brain regions. These inter-regional 
interactions can be characterized by mutual information (MI). Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) is known to affect many high-order cognitive functions, suggesting 
an alteration to inter-regional MI, which remains unstudied.ObjectiveTo examine 
whether inter-regional MI can effectively distinguish different stages of AD 
from normal control (NC) through a connectome-based graph convolutional network 
(GCN).MethodsMI was calculated between the mean time series of each pair of 
brain regions, forming the connectome which was input to a multi-level 
connectome based GCN (MLC-GCN) to predict the different stages of AD and NC. The 
spatio-temporal feature extraction in MLC-GCN was used to capture multi-level 
functional connectivity patterns generating connectomes. The GCN predictor 
learns and optimizes graph representations at each level, concatenating the 
representations for final classification. We validated our model on 552 subjects 
from ADNI and OASIS3. The MI-based model was compared to models with several 
different connectomes defined by Kullback-Leibler divergence, cross-entropy, 
cross-sample entropy, and correlation coefficient. Model performance was 
evaluated using 5-fold cross-validation.ResultsThe MI-based connectome achieved 
the highest prediction performance for both ADNI2 and OASIS3 where it's 
accuracy/Area Under the Curve/F1 were 87.72%/0.96/0.88 and 84.11%/0.96/0.91 
respectively. Model visualization revealed that prominent MI features located in 
temporal, prefrontal, and parietal cortices.ConclusionsMI-based connectomes can 
reliably differentiate NC, mild cognitive impairment and AD. Compared to other 
four measures, MI demonstrated the best performance. The model should be further 
tested with other independent datasets.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251350306
PMID: 40660813