1. Case Rep Hematol. 2025 Jul 8;2025:1402790. doi: 10.1155/crh/1402790.
eCollection  2025.

Successful Hemostasis With Platelet Transfusion and Tranexamic Acid, and 
Inhibitor Elimination With Cyclosporine, in Steroid-Resistant Acquired 
Coagulation Factor V Deficiency Caused by Antibiotic Readministration.

Togitani K(1), Yamamoto M(2), Tanaka S(3), Aono R(2), Uemura Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Chikamori Hospital, Kochi, Japan.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Chikamori Hospital, Kochi, Japan.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Chikamori Hospital, Kochi, Japan.

Acquired factor V deficiency (AFVD) is a rare coagulation abnormality associated 
with infectious diseases, antibiotics, surgery, autoimmune diseases, and 
malignancy, which causality is difficult to prove. Here, we report a case of a 
90-year-old woman who developed melena following antibiotic treatment for 
pneumonia. She had been on cefepime for bacterial pneumonia for 2 months to 
2 weeks prior to her arrival in the emergency room. Upon presentation, she had 
severe anemia (Hb: 6.7 g/dL) and prolonged PT (74.3 s) and activated partial 
thromboplastin time (APTT) (161.9 s). Coagulation studies revealed incomplete 
correction of the APTT in a 1:1 mixing study with normal pooled plasma, factor V 
activity of 0%, and a factor V inhibitor titer of 13 Bethesda units, confirming 
the diagnosis of AFVD. Since the antibiotics were not recognized as the cause, 
the coagulation abnormality worsened after their readministration. The melena 
subsequently improved with platelet transfusion and administration of tranexamic 
acid, while prednisolone-resistant coagulation abnormalities improved with 
cyclosporine A (CsA) treatment. This case shows the importance of avoiding 
suspected drugs and the effectiveness of CsA as a second-line treatment of AFVD.

Copyright © 2025 Kazuto Togitani et al. Case Reports in Hematology published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1155/crh/1402790
PMCID: PMC12263256
PMID: 40667519

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


2. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 17:2025.06.17.660080. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.17.660080.

Extracellular Vesicle-Mediated Delivery of Genetic Material for Transformation 
and CRISPR/Cas9-based Gene Editing in Pneumocystis murina.

Sayson SG, Ashbaugh A, Bauer LC, Smulian G.

Pneumocystis species are obligate fungal pathogens that cause severe pneumonia, 
particularly in immunocompromised individuals. The absence of robust genetic 
manipulation tools has impeded our mechanistic understanding of Pneumocystis 
biology and the development of novel therapeutic strategies. Herein, we describe 
a novel method for the stable transformation and CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genetic 
editing of Pneumocystis murina utilizing extracellular vesicles (EVs) as a 
delivery vehicle. Building upon our prior investigations demonstrating 
EV-mediated delivery of exogenous material to Pneumocystis , we engineered mouse 
lung EVs to deliver plasmid DNA encoding reporter genes and CRISPR/Cas9 
components. Our initial findings demonstrated successful in vitro transformation 
and subsequent expression of mNeonGreen and Dhps ARS in P. murina organisms. 
Subsequently, we established stable in vivo expression of mNeonGreen in mice 
infected with transformed P. murina for a duration of up to 5 weeks. 
Furthermore, we designed and validated a CRISPR/Cas9 system targeting the P. 
murina Dhps gene, confirming its in vitro cleavage efficiency. Ultimately, we 
achieved successful in vivo CRISPR/Cas9-mediated homologous recombination, 
precisely introducing a Dhps ARS mutation into the P. murina genome, which was 
confirmed by Sanger sequencing across all tested animals. Here, we establish a 
foundational methodology for genetic manipulation in Pneumocystis , thereby 
opening avenues for functional genomics, drug target validation, and the 
generation of genetically modified strains for advanced research and potential 
therapeutic applications.
IMPORTANCE: Pneumocystis species are obligate fungal pathogens and major causes 
of pneumonia in immunocompromised individuals. However, their strict dependence 
on the mammalian lung environment has precluded the development of genetic 
manipulation systems, limiting our ability to interrogate gene function, study 
antifungal resistance mechanisms, or validate therapeutic targets. Here, we 
report the first successful approach for stable transformation and 
CRISPR/Cas9-based genome editing of Pneumocystis murina , achieved through in 
vivo delivery of engineered extracellular vesicles (EVs) containing plasmid DNA 
and encoding CRISPR/Cas9 components. We demonstrate sustained transgene 
expression and precise modification of the dhps locus via homology-directed 
repair. This modular, scalable platform overcomes a long-standing barrier in the 
field and establishes a foundation for functional genomics in Pneumocystis and 
other obligate, host-adapted microbes.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.17.660080
PMCID: PMC12262392
PMID: 40667333


3. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 22:2025.06.17.660114. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.17.660114.

The Maximum-Tolerated Dose and Pharmacokinetics of ISFP10 a Novel Inhibitor of 
Fungal Phosphoglucomutase (PGM).

Kottom TJ, Limper AH.

BACKGROUND: The newly identified small molecule ISFP10 has demonstrated the 
ability to inhibit fungal phosphoglucomutases (PGM), leading to decreased fungal 
growth and survival. Exhibiting 50 times greater selectivity for fungal PGM 
compared to the human homolog, ISFP10 shows promise as a broad-spectrum 
antifungal and a candidate for preliminary testing in rodent models of fungal 
infections, including Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP). In preparation for targeted 
and relevant administration of the drug in fungal mouse models of infection, the 
current study describes the maximum-tolerated-dose (MTD) and pharmacokinetics 
(PK) of ISFP10 in mice.
METHODS: For the MTD study, 24 C57BL/6 mice were randomly distributed into 6 
groups (2M/2F per group): Placebo (vehicle; 10% DMSO with 90% of 0.5% 
methylcellulose in 0.9% NaCl) at various doses (12.5, 25, 50, 100, 200 mg/kg), 
were administered twice daily by intraperitoneally (IP) for 7 consecutive days. 
For the PK study, 108 mice were administered either vehicle or ISFP10 in 
single-dose intraperitoneal (IP) injections twice daily for 7 consecutive days 
at concentrations of 0, 12.5, 25, 50, and 100 mg/kg. Pharmacokinetics were 
assessed in plasma, and epithelial lining fluid (ELF). Analysis of this test 
compound was performed using LC-MS/MS for PK evaluation on blood samples drawn 
from mice at multiple time points.
RESULTS: IP administered, ISFP10 did not produce significant changes in body 
weight, food consumption or adverse events in the MTD up to 100 mg/kg dosing. 
The plasma PK study demonstrated T max values ranging from 2 to 8 h. 
Non-compartmental analysis (NCA) yielded elimination half-life values, t 1/2 , 
of 4.39 and 5.31 h for the 12.5 and 50 mg/kg dose groups. Concentration 
dependent peak-blood concentration (C max ) at the dosing and length tested 
ranged from 3.450-5.140 ug/ml.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, ISFP10, administered intraperitoneally to mice twice 
daily at doses up to 100 mg/kg, exhibited no inherent safety concerns based on 
the analyzed parameters. Pharmacokinetic analysis revealed slow absorption and 
distribution kinetics, with plasma T max values ranging from 2 to 8 hours and 
elimination half-lives of approximately 4-5 hours at lower doses. These data 
support broader in vivo testing of the inhibitor as potential novel antifungal 
in fungal diseases including PCP.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.17.660114
PMCID: PMC12262572
PMID: 40667303


4. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 25:2025.06.19.660619. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.19.660619.

Identification of Chlamydia pneumoniae and NLRP3 inflammasome activation in 
Alzheimer's disease retina.

Gaire BP, Koronyo Y, Vit JP, Hutton A, Swerdlow N, Fuchs DT, Rentsendorj A, 
Shahin S, Subedi L, Robinson E, Ljubimov AV, Schneider LS, Hawes D, Graham SL, 
Gupta VK, Mirzaei M, Black KL, Meyer JG, Arditi M, Crother TR, Koronyo-Hamaoui 
M.

Chlamydia pneumoniae (Cp), an obligate intracellular bacterium, has been 
implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet its role in retinal pathology 
remains unexplored. We analyzed postmortem tissues from 95 human donors and 
found 2.9-4.1-fold increases in Cp inclusions in AD retinas and brains, with no 
significant elevation in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Proteomics revealed 
dysregulation of retinal and brain bacterial infection-related proteins and 
NLRP3 inflammasome pathways. NLRP3 expression was markedly elevated in MCI and 
AD retinas, and its activation was evident by increased N-terminal gasdermin D 
(NGSDMD) and mature interleukin-1β. Retinal Cp strongly correlated with Aβ 42 
and NLRP3 inflammasome components, which tightly linked to cleaved 
caspase-3-apoptotic and NGSDMD-pyroptotic cell death. Although retinal 
microgliosis was elevated in AD, Cp-associated microglia were reduced by 62%, 
suggesting impaired Cp phagocytosis. Higher retinal Cp burden correlated with 
APOEε4, Braak stage, and cognitive deficit. Machine learning identified retinal 
Cp or NLRP3 combined with Aβ 42 as strong predictors of AD diagnosis, staging, 
and cognitive impairment. Our findings suggest that Cp infection contributes to 
AD dementia but not initiating pathology, whereas early NLRP3 activation may 
promote disease development, warranting studies on Cp's role in AD pathogenesis 
and early antibiotic or inflammasome-targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.19.660619
PMCID: PMC12262374
PMID: 40667156


5. Arch Clin Cases. 2025 Jul 15;12(2):98-101. doi: 10.22551/2025.47.1202.10320. 
eCollection 2025.

Teclistamab-associated cytokine release syndrome in multiple myeloma: a 
case-based literature review of mechanisms, management, and clinical 
implications.

Cheema M(1), Syed S(1), Ghuman Z(1), Iftikhar A(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Mather Hospital, Northwell Health, Port 
Jefferson, NY, USA.
(2)Division of Intensive Care Medicine and Pulmonary Medicine, Northwell Health, 
Port Jefferson, NY, USA.
(3)Donald and Barbara School of Medicine, Hofstra/Northwell, Hempstead, NY, USA.

Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is a potentially life-threatening inflammatory 
condition that can occur after immune-based therapies, such as bispecific 
antibodies. We present the case of a 66-year-old woman with relapsed/refractory 
multiple myeloma who developed fatal CRS following treatment with Teclistamab, a 
bispecific antibody that targets CD3 on T cells and B-cell maturation antigen on 
myeloma cells. The patient had previously achieved remission with rituximab, 
bortezomib, and autologous stem cell transplantation but experienced a relapse 
after eight years. Teclistamab was initiated with a step-up dosing regimen. 
Before treatment, she received premedication with intravenous fluids, steroids, 
and tocilizumab. Despite this premedication, the patient was readmitted with 
fever, chills, and shortness of breath, leukopenia, and hypoxia. Imaging studies 
indicated pneumonia. During her hospitalization, her condition deteriorated 
rapidly, resulting in respiratory failure and refractory shock. She was 
transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU), where she required mechanical 
ventilation and multiple pressor support. Despite aggressive resuscitation 
efforts, she progressed to multi-organ failure, and the family ultimately chose 
to withdraw care. CRS is characterized by a systemic inflammatory response with 
rapid and excessive release of cytokines, particularly IL-6, IL-2, IL-10, IFN-γ, 
and GM-CSF. Severe CRS can clinically resemble sepsis. Management strategies 
include early recognition, supportive care, and immunomodulatory therapy, 
particularly with tocilizumab and corticosteroids. This case underscores the 
diagnostic and therapeutic challenges of differentiating severe CRS from 
infection. This case uniquely contributes to current understanding by 
highlighting the limitations of current premedication protocols and emphasizing 
the critical need for enhanced monitoring and rapid intervention protocols in 
managing Teclistamab-induced CRS. It highlights the critical need for prompt, 
targeted intervention to prevent fatal outcomes in patients receiving novel 
immunotherapies.

DOI: 10.22551/2025.47.1202.10320
PMCID: PMC12262052
PMID: 40666817

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


6. Access Microbiol. 2025 Jul 14;7(7):000837.v4. doi: 10.1099/acmi.0.000837.v4. 
eCollection 2025.

Evaluation of the efficacy of cephalosporin antibiotics sold in Kano, Nigeria, 
against clinical bacterial isolates.

Ibrahim SA(1), Muhammad B(1), Rabiu I(2)(3), Muhammed A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Life Sciences, College of Natural and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Bayero University, P.M.B. 3011, Kano, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Delft University of Technology, Van der Maasweg 
9, 2629 HZ Delft, Netherlands.
(3)Department of Microbiology, School of Science and Information Technology, 
Skyline University Nigeria, Kano, Nigeria.

Introduction. The evaluation of the efficacy of cephalosporin antibiotics sold 
in Kano, Nigeria, against clinical bacterial isolates is a timely and crucial 
public health concern. Cephalosporins are among the most widely used antibiotic 
classes globally due to their broad-spectrum activity and low toxicity. They 
play a vital role in the empirical treatment of infections involving both 
Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. However, the increasing misuse and 
circulation of substandard or falsified antibiotics, especially in informal 
markets, threatens their therapeutic effectiveness. Gap statement. In Nigeria, 
several formal and informal reports of substandard antibiotics and their 
unregulated sale in open markets, such as Sabon Gari in Kano, raise serious 
concerns about the quality of drug and their potential contribution to 
antimicrobial resistance (AMR). Cephalosporins sold in these markets are often 
sourced and stored under questionable conditions, which increases the risk of 
reduced potency or inefficacy. At the same time, AMR continues to rise globally, 
and in low and middle-income countries like Nigeria, poor-quality antibiotics 
can worsen treatment failure and drive resistance. Sabon Gari market is a major 
distribution centre for pharmaceuticals, yet research on its impact and extent 
of substandard drugs is lacking. Aim. This study aims to assess the 
pharmaceutical quality of commonly sold cephalosporins purchased from drug 
distributors in Sabon Gari Market, Kano, by comparing their antimicrobial 
activity against a panel of clinical bacterial isolates (Escherichia coli, 
Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Salmonella sp.) with that of standard reference 
antibiotics. Methodology. Antimicrobial susceptibility pattern of the test 
isolates was determined by the disc diffusion method. Fourier transform infrared 
spectroscopy analysis was used to confirm the functional group of the active 
ingredients of all the antibiotics tested. Molecular identification of the 
resistant gene (CTX-M1) was carried out using PCR. Results. Market survey 
(n=100) reveals that among drug distributors in Sabon Gari Market, Kano, 
cephalexin 61% (first generation); cefuroxime 72% (second generation); cefixime 
68%, cefpodoxime 79%, ceftriaxone 63%, ceftazidime 70% and cefotaxime 45% (third 
generation); cefepime 84% (fourth generation) were the most commonly sold 
cephalosporins, with different brands and company names. These percentages 
represent the proportion of respondents who reported each antibiotic as one of 
their most frequently sold products. There is no significant difference between 
the branded antibiotics (drugs purchased in the market) and standard drugs. 
Exactly 20% of E. coli and K. pneumoniae were resistant, while 80% of 
Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Pseudomonas and Salmonella sp. 
were susceptible. The CTX-M1 resistant gene was identified in E. coli and K. 
pneumoniae, which further confirms their resistance to cefotaxime and 
ceftriaxone antibiotics. Conclusion. Branded cephalosporins sold in Kano were 
chemically intact and structurally aligned with their respective formulations. 
No missing or anomalous functional groups were observed that would suggest 
substandard or counterfeit products, thus fit for human intake.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1099/acmi.0.000837.v4
PMCID: PMC12258513
PMID: 40666713

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


7. J Arrhythm. 2025 Jul 15;41(4):e70079. doi: 10.1002/joa3.70079. eCollection
2025  Aug.

Cardiac arrhythmias in cancer patients using the nationwide claim-based database 
in Japan.

Kobayashi T(1)(2)(3)(4), Kusano K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine National Cerebral and Cardiovascular 
Center Suita Japan.
(2)Department of Preventive Cardiology National Cerebral and Cardiovascular 
Center Suita Japan.
(3)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine Department of Internal Medicine, Sensoji 
Hospital Tokyo Japan.
(4)Present address: Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine Sensoji Hospital Tokyo Japan.

BACKGROUND: Cardio-oncology has recently developed as a new discipline. No study 
using a Nationwide Claim-Based Database has examined the association between 
cancer and arrhythmia in Japan.
METHODS: JROAD-DPC (Japanese Registry Of All cardiac and vascular Diseases - 
Diagnosis Procedure Combination) is a nationwide claims database using data from 
the Japanese Diagnosis Procedure Combination/Per Diem Payment System. Among 
11 297 525 records found between April 2012 and March 2021 from 1119 hospitals, 
2 976 362 patients with arrhythmias were studied and divided into categories 
using cancer.
RESULTS: The prevalence rate of cancers was 7.51% of the patients hospitalized 
for arrhythmias, and the prevalence of cancer increased with time. The 
prevalence rate of Atrial fibrillation (AF) and/or atrial flutter (AFL) was 
70.6% and 60.7% of arrhythmic patients with and without cancer, respectively. 
Pneumonia (7.41%) was the first major infectious complication in arrhythmic 
patients with cancers. Arrhythmic patients with cancers had significantly higher 
Barthel index (65.2 at admission and 72.5 at discharge) and prevalences of 
hyperuricemia (HU) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) (6.13% and 9.67%) than those 
without cancer. The rate of emergency hospitalization was higher in arrhythmic 
patients with cancers than those without cancer (58.9% vs. 57.6%).
CONCLUSION: Cancers were frequently observed in arrhythmic patients, and the 
prevalences increased with time. AF and/or AFL were the most common arrhythmias 
of cancer patients. Arrhythmic patients with cancers had significantly higher 
Barthel index and prevalences of HU and CKD than those without cancer.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Arrhythmia published by John Wiley & Sons 
Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Heart Rhythm Society.

DOI: 10.1002/joa3.70079
PMCID: PMC12260475
PMID: 40666709

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no conflict of interests for 
this article.


8. Cureus. 2025 Jun 15;17(6):e86031. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86031. eCollection 2025 
Jun.

Paraneoplastic Amyopathic Dermatomyositis Associated With a Bone and Medullary 
Location of Breast Adenocarcinoma.

Haboub F(1), El Fadli M(2), Zouiten O(1), Afani L(1), Belbaraka R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire Mohammed VI, 
Marrakesh, MAR.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Cadi Ayyad University, Marrakesh, MAR.

Paraneoplastic amyopathic dermatomyositis (ADM) is a rare connective tissue 
disease presenting with characteristic dermatomyositis-like skin findings in the 
absence of muscle involvement. It is associated with malignancies in 15%-30% of 
cases and may portend a fatal outcome, especially when linked to advanced 
cancers. We report the case of a 58-year-old woman who presented with 
progressive low back pain and erythroderma. Imaging revealed diffuse bone 
metastases, and bone biopsy confirmed a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of 
breast origin (estrogen receptor, 60%; progesterone receptor, 35%; GATA3 
positive). Simultaneously, dermatological evaluation identified periungual 
erythema and other cutaneous findings consistent with ADM. The patient was 
started on endocrine therapy with palbociclib and letrozole, along with 
corticosteroids and hydroxychloroquine, resulting in partial clinical 
improvement. However, within six months of diagnosis, she developed severe 
COVID-19 pneumonia, complicated by pancytopenia and sepsis, and ultimately 
succumbed to multiorgan failure despite intensive care support. This case 
underlines the importance of recognizing paraneoplastic ADM as an initial 
manifestation of malignancy. A multidisciplinary approach is key, but the 
prognosis largely depends on the cancer's burden and complications such as 
treatment-induced immunosuppression.

Copyright © 2025, Haboub et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86031
PMCID: PMC12260473
PMID: 40666594

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


9. Cureus. 2025 Jun 15;17(6):e86041. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86041. eCollection 2025 
Jun.

Lessons From Recurrent Dropped Head Syndrome After Inadequate Short Fixation: A 
Case Series.

Honda E(1), Tanaka T(2), Liu X(1), Tsunoda K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Shiroishi Kyoritsu Hospital, Shiroishi, JPN.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, International University of Health and Welfare 
Narita Hospital, Narita, JPN.
(3)Department of Spinal Surgery, Kawasaki Hospital, Yame, JPN.

Dropped head syndrome (DHS) is a condition in which the head falls forward due 
to dysfunction or atrophy of the cervical extensor muscles. It is more commonly 
observed in elderly women and significantly affects horizontal gaze and 
activities of daily living (ADL). For cases in which conservative treatment is 
ineffective, surgical corrective fixation is considered; however, indications 
and standardized procedures have not yet been fully established. We 
retrospectively analyzed five cases of DHS treated surgically at our institution 
and examined the efficacy of corrective fixation and potential treatment 
strategies. Five patients (mean age: 82.6 years; all female) who underwent 
surgery for DHS between 2018 and 2024 were included. Three patients initially 
underwent short-segment fixation or laminoplasty, but DHS recurred. Eventually, 
all cases required long-segment fixation extending from C2 or the occiput to 
Th1/Th2. Radiological evaluations included measurements of the C2-C7 Cobb 
angles, sagittal vertical axis (SVA), and T1 slope before and after surgery. All 
patients exhibited cervical kyphosis and sagittal imbalance. Postoperatively, 
cervical lordosis was restored, and improvements were noted in SVA and T1 slope. 
In four cases, patients were able to maintain horizontal gaze for over 30 
minutes, and improvements in ADL living were observed. One patient died from 
aspiration pneumonia, although horizontal gaze was maintained postoperatively. 
Long-segment corrective fixation within an appropriate range is considered a 
safe and effective treatment option.

Copyright © 2025, Honda et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86041
PMCID: PMC12261008
PMID: 40666593

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


10. Cureus. 2025 Jun 14;17(6):e86024. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86024. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

A Rare Case of Polymicrobial Empyema Associated With COVID-19 Infection 
Complicated by a Bronchopleural Fistula.

Regmi DR(1), Kshetri S(2), Wagle L(3), Regmi S(4).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Nepalese Army Institute of Health Sciences, Kathmandu, 
NPL.
(2)Internal Medicine, MedStar Franklin Square Medical Center, Baltimore, USA.
(3)Internal Medicine, Ascension Saint Agnes Hospital, Baltimore, USA.
(4)Internal Medicine, Tribhuvan University Institute of Medicine, Kathmandu, 
NPL.

Empyema is a rare but serious complication in patients with COVID-19, and its 
association with bronchopleural fistula (BPF) is even more uncommon. We present 
the case of a 40-year-old woman with a history of intravenous drug use who 
developed polymicrobial empyema in the setting of COVID-19, further complicated 
by BPF. She presented with hypoxic respiratory failure, leukocytosis, and lactic 
acidosis. Imaging revealed a large right-sided hydropneumothorax and bilateral 
lung opacities. Broad-spectrum antibiotics, antivirals, and corticosteroids were 
initiated, and 3 liters of purulent fluid were drained via chest tube, 
confirming empyema. Cultures identified multiple pathogens, including 
Bacteroides fragilis, Arcanobacterium hemolyticum, methicillin-sensitive 
Staphylococcus aureus, and Group C/G streptococci. Persistent air leak and 
incomplete lung re-expansion led to a diagnosis of BPF. The patient was 
successfully managed with prolonged antibiotic therapy and chest tube drainage 
without requiring surgical or bronchoscopic intervention. This case highlights 
the importance of recognizing and conservatively managing small BPFs in 
COVID-19-associated empyema, emphasizing the potential for non-surgical 
resolution in select cases.

Copyright © 2025, Regmi et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86024
PMCID: PMC12259386
PMID: 40666568

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


11. Cureus. 2025 Jun 13;17(6):e85976. doi: 10.7759/cureus.85976. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

Correlation of Radiographic and High-Resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT) 
Features in Lower Lobe Tuberculosis With Microbiological Findings: A Study in 
the Konaseema Region.

Kakileti B(1), Purushottam M D(2), Pratyusha T(3), N P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Konaseema Institute of Medical Sciences and Research 
Foundation, Amalapuram, IND.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Konaseema Institute of Medical Sciences and 
Research Foundation, Amalapuram, IND.
(3)Department of Pulmonology, Konaseema Institute of Medical Sciences and 
Research Foundation, Amalapuram, IND.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the radiographic, high-resolution 
computed tomography (HRCT), and microbiological characteristics of pulmonary 
tuberculosis (PTB) in general, with a focused correlation analysis in a subset 
of patients with lower lobe tuberculosis (LLTB), to aid in the accurate 
diagnosis and clinical differentiation of this atypical presentation.
METHODS: A prospective observational study was conducted in the pulmonology, 
radiology, and microbiology departments of Konaseema Institute of Medical 
Sciences and Research Foundation, Andhra Pradesh. The study period was from 
December 2022 to June 2024. The study included 40 confirmed cases of LLTB, which 
were identified based on microbiological and radiological findings. HRCT and 
chest radiographs were analyzed for characteristic patterns. At the same time, 
microbial confirmation was obtained through Ziehl-Neelsen (ZN) staining, 
GeneXpert MTB/RIF assay (Cepheid, Sunnyvale, CA, USA), and culture 
on Löwenstein-Jensen (LJ) medium (HiMedia Laboratories Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, 
India). Spearman's correlation was used to assess the correlation between 
radiological findings and microbiological confirmation.
RESULTS:  Patchy opacities were the most frequently observed radiological 
abnormality, identified in 37 (50.0%) out of 74 patients, followed by 
homogeneous consolidation in 31 (41.9%) and cavitation in 14 (18.9%) cases. 
Nodular opacities and para-pneumonic effusion were noted in nine (12.2%) and 
eight (10.8%) patients, respectively, reflecting the heterogeneous imaging 
patterns associated with LLTB. Sputum smear microscopy for acid-fast bacilli 
(AFB) yielded positive results in 33 (18.2%) cases, while bronchoalveolar lavage 
(BAL) confirmed tuberculosis in 12 (6.6%) patients. HRCT findings contributed to 
the diagnosis in 16 (8.8%) cases. Additionally, nine (5.0%) cases of 
non-resolving pneumonia and 11 (6.1%) cases presenting with hemoptysis 
underscored the diagnostic complexity of lower lobe involvement.
CONCLUSION:  In conclusion, LLTB shows atypical radiological features, often 
mimicking pneumonia, with patchy opacities and consolidation. Cavitation is a 
key diagnostic indicator due to its strong microbiological correlation. A 
combined clinical, radiological, and microbial approach is essential for 
accurate diagnosis.

Copyright © 2025, Kakileti et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.85976
PMCID: PMC12261384
PMID: 40666543

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Institutional Ethical Committee, Konaseema Institute of Medical Sciences 
and Research Foundation issued approval 83/02.12.2022. Animal subjects: All 
authors have confirmed that this study did not involve animal subjects or 
tissue. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


12. Mediastinum. 2025 May 21;9:12. doi: 10.21037/med-24-33. eCollection 2025.

Complications of linear endobronchial ultrasound guided biopsies: narrative 
review.

Rizvi B(1)(2), Pineda JAM(2), Nostrand KV(2), Miller R(2)(3), Cheng G(2), Patel 
NM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, United Health Services 
Southern California Medical Education Consortium, Temecula, CA, USA.
(2)Interventional Pulmonology, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, Sleep 
Medicine & Physiology, University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA.
(3)Naval Medical Center, San Diego, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Linear endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) has become a 
key tool for diagnosing pulmonary diseases, offering high diagnostic yield for 
both malignant and non-malignant conditions. With its increased use, more 
complications are being reported. The objective of this narrative review is to 
discuss the complications associated with linear EBUS.
METHODS: A literature search using PubMed and Google Scholar from 2009 to 2024 
was done. We included case reports, prospective, and retrospective studies 
reporting linear EBUS complications.
KEY CONTENT AND FINDINGS: Overall complications from EBUS range from 0.04% to 
17%. Most common are infectious complications which are 0.04-4%. These include 
mediastinitis, pneumonia, pericarditis, bacteremia, tumor bed infection, lung 
abscess, empyema, and septic shock. Other complications include pneumothorax, 
pneumomediastinum, pneumopericardium, pneumoperitoneum, and subcutaneous 
emphysema. Complications due to anesthesia or equipment malfunction can occur as 
well. Hemorrhagic complications have been reported as well. Mortality is low 
0.01-0.04%, and four cases have been reported that led to death from 
complications.
CONCLUSIONS: With increased use of EBUS as a diagnostic tool, number of 
complications will increase. Clinicians performing the procedures should be 
aware of types of possible complications that can occur and follow the patients 
closely after the procedure. Rapid diagnosis and treatment should be done to 
avoid fatal outcomes.

Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/med-24-33
PMCID: PMC12260959
PMID: 40666540

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://med.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/med-24-33/coif). G.C. received 
Harvard patent on SLIPS from BIDMC, and other patent pending, and received 
consulting fees from Intuitive, Ajax, Olympus, Cook, Pinnicle Biologics, 
Siemens, Leadoptiks. G.C. also has a leadership role in AABIP board of directors 
and in ACCP. N.M.P. received consulting proctoring fees from Intuitive Surgical 
and support for meeting attendance from European Respiratory Society. The other 
authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.


13. Front Immunol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1598902. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1598902. 
eCollection 2025.

STING regulates NETs formation by activating GSDMD in influenza viral pneumonia.

Huang R(1)(2)(3), Chen R(1)(2)(3), Xing L(1)(2)(3), Wu L(1)(2)(3), Zhu W(1), 
Jing J(1)(2)(3), Zhou T(1), Wu Y(1), Zhang S(4), You Z(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medical Sciences & Forensic Medicine, Hangzhou Medical 
College, Hangzhou, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Key Discipline of Zhejiang Province in Public Health and Preventive Medicine 
(First Class, Category A), Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, China.
(4)Center for Safety Evaluation and Research, Hangzhou Medical College, 
Hangzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: Viral pneumonia is the most common and lethal pandemic disease, but 
there are no broad-spectrum antiviral drugs with high genetic barriers to 
resistance. To elucidate the mechanisms of viral pneumonia progression and 
potential targets for its treatment.
METHODS: Viral pneumonia models were induced by the PR8 virus strain in 
wild-type (WT) and STING knockout (STING-KO) mice. Series of molecular biology 
techniques were used to evaluate the severity of pneumonia and cytokine levels.
RESULTS: In this study, STING (stimulator of interferon genes) was activated in 
the lungs of virus-infected mice, leading to cytokine production and 
amplification of the immune response, thereby causing rapid deterioration of 
symptoms. Furthermore, excessive activation of innate immune response via STING 
was prevented by a STING inhibitor (C-176), which significantly reduced viral 
lung inflammation. The formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) was 
similarly suppressed during viral pneumonia treatment with STING inhibitors 
(C-176), and NETs formation and STING expression were positively correlated, 
indicating that STING plays an important role in NETs formation. Symptoms of 
pneumonia in STING-KO mice infected with PR8 were significantly milder than 
those in WT mice, and NETs were less likely to form in the lung tissue of 
STING-KO mice. Additionally, transcriptomic analysis revealed that 
STING-mediated regulation of NETs may be associated with gasdermin D (GSDMD), 
and immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that STING, GSDMD, and NETs-related 
proteins interact with each other. Immunofluorescence assays revealed that in 
neutrophils from WT mice, STING and GSDMD were colocalized on the membrane after 
viral infection, whereas in neutrophils from STING-KO mice, GSDMD expression was 
decreased after exposure to the virus.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that targeted intervention with STING 
alleviated pneumonia by inhibiting inflammation and NETs formation. The study 
also revealed that blocking STING could inhibit the activation of GSDMD to 
inhibit NETs formation, slowing the progression of viral pneumonia.

Copyright © 2025 Huang, Chen, Xing, Wu, Zhu, Jing, Zhou, Wu, Zhang and You.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1598902
PMCID: PMC12260538
PMID: 40666504

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


14. JGH Open. 2025 Jul 15;9(7):e70226. doi: 10.1002/jgh3.70226. eCollection 2025 
Jul.

Clinical Outcomes of Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection for Early Gastric Cancer 
Patients With Concurrent Advanced Malignancies With Expected Poor Prognosis.

Takemoto H(1), Takigawa H(1), Kotachi T(1), Teshima H(1), Tsuboi A(1), Tanaka 
H(1), Yamashita K(1), Urabe Y(1), Kuwai T(2), Oka S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology Hiroshima University Hospital Hiroshima Japan.
(2)Gastrointestinal Endoscopy and Medicine Hiroshima University Hospital 
Hiroshima Japan.

AIMS: Despite improved outcomes for malignant tumors, evidence regarding the 
management of patients with multiple malignancies remains limited. We aimed to 
evaluate the clinical outcomes and prognosis of patients undergoing endoscopic 
submucosal dissection (ESD) for early gastric cancer (EGC) complicated by 
advanced malignancies in other organs with a poor prognosis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We retrospectively reviewed 3703 gastric cancer patients 
who underwent ESD at our hospital (2005-2022), focusing on those with advanced 
extra-gastric malignancies with a 5-year survival rate of < 50%. ESD was 
performed for local tumor control based on patient preference when feasible, 
including lesions meeting standard, expanded, or relative indications where 
curative resection was unachievable. Clinicopathological characteristics and 
outcomes were analyzed. Twenty-six patients met the inclusion criteria. En bloc 
resection was achieved in all cases (100%), with curative and non-curative 
resection in 16 (62%) and 10 (38%) cases, respectively. None of the 10 patients 
with non-curative resection exhibited lymphovascular invasion or GC recurrence. 
Complications included delayed bleeding, perforation, and pneumonia, each in one 
patient (4%), all leading to disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and 
death within 30 days post-ESD. Notably, no complications were reported after 
2010. Eleven patients died from advanced malignant tumors, with no GC 
recurrences observed during follow-up in surviving patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Recently, no severe complications have been observed with ESD. 
Although ESD for local control in EGC with concurrent advanced extra-gastric 
malignancies may be acceptable, the risk of severe complications, including DIC, 
remains. Therefore, careful patient selection and thorough informed consent are 
essential.

© 2025 The Author(s). JGH Open published by Journal of Gastroenterology and 
Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jgh3.70226
PMCID: PMC12260765
PMID: 40666189

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


15. ACG Case Rep J. 2025 Jul 14;12(7):e01752. doi: 10.14309/crj.0000000000001752.
 eCollection 2025 Jul.

Gastrografin Enema to the Rescue of the Glorious Cecal Bascule.

Bangash B(1), Pean D(1), Khasria G(1), Hader I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, HCA Healthcare Houston Kingwood, Kingwood, 
TX.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, HCA Healthcare Houston Kingwood, Kingwood, 
TX.

A 74-year-old woman with a history of gastroesophageal reflux disease, hiatal 
hernia, Barrett's esophagus, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and chronic 
constipation was hospitalized for community-acquired pneumonia. During her 
hospitalization, she developed progressive lower abdominal discomfort and 
reported no bowel movement for 8 days. Conservative measures, including oral 
laxatives, enemas, and manual disimpaction, were unsuccessful, prompting 
gastroenterology consultation. Imaging revealed colonic pseudo-obstruction with 
a markedly dilated cecum, suggestive of a type III cecal bascule-a rare upward 
folding of the cecum without torsion. Owing to her clinical stability, absence 
of peritoneal signs, and lack of ischemia on imaging, a nonsurgical approach was 
pursued. The patient was treated with a Gastrografin enema, resulting in 
immediate decompression and clinical improvement. This case contributes to 
emerging literature supporting conservative management of cecal bascule in 
select patients and emphasizes the importance of careful patient selection.

© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of The 
American College of Gastroenterology.

DOI: 10.14309/crj.0000000000001752
PMCID: PMC12263039
PMID: 40666023


16. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Jul 1;12:1493761. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1493761. 
eCollection 2025.

Association of follow-up neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio with postoperative 
pneumonia in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage patients after endovascular 
treatment: a retrospective analysis.

Huang X(#)(1), Jiang X(#)(1), Gao W(#)(1)(2), Guo L(#)(1), Guo X(1)(2), Zheng 
H(1), Pan Z(1), Lin Q(1), Zheng S(3), Ke C(1), Hu W(1), Qi Z(4), Zheng F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical 
University, Quanzhou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical 
University, Quanzhou, China.
(3)Division of Public Management, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical 
University, Quanzhou, China.
(4)Division of Neurosurgery, Jinjiang Municipal Hospital (Shanghai Sixth 
People's Hospital Fujian Campus), Quanzhou, China.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Research on the relationship between dynamic 
neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR)-measured at different time points around 
endovascular treatment-and the occurrence of postoperative pneumonia (POP) in 
patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) is still relatively 
scarce. This study aims to explore the association between dynamic NLR and the 
incidence of POP in patients with aSAH undergoing endovascular therapy.
METHODS: This study included patients with aSAH who underwent endovascular 
treatment between January 2019 and April 2023. The follow-up endpoint was the 
presence of POP at 30 days postoperatively. Logistic regression analysis was 
conducted using POP as the dependent variable. The NLR was calculated at 
admission (NLR1), 24 h after endovascular treatment (NLR2), and 3-7 days after 
endovascular treatment (NLR3). Four prediction models were constructed: Model 1 
(variables with p < 0.05, except for the NLR), Model 2 (Model 1 plus NLR1), 
Model 3 (Model 1 plus NLR2), and Model 4 (Model 1 plus NLR3).
RESULTS: Among the 154 patients with aSAH, POP occurred in 101 (65.6%) patients. 
Higher NLRs at admission [odds ratio (OR) = 1.08; 95% confidence interval (CI): 
1.02, 1.16; p = 0.019], 24 h postoperatively (OR = 1.14; 95% CI = 1.05, 1.25; 
p = 0.005) and 3-7 days postoperatively (OR = 1.17; 95% CI = 1.02, 1.38; 
p = 0.04) were associated with the occurrence of POP.
CONCLUSION: Follow-up NLR may be associated with POP in patients with aSAH 
treated endovascularly. Elevated NLR at admission, 24 h postoperatively, and 
3-7 days postoperatively correlated with a high risk for POP.

Copyright © 2025 Huang, Jiang, Gao, Guo, Guo, Zheng, Pan, Lin, Zheng, Ke, Hu, Qi 
and Zheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1493761
PMCID: PMC12259634
PMID: 40665982

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


17. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2025 Jul;34(7):e70180. doi: 10.1002/pds.70180.

How COVID-19 Treatment in Pregnancy Reflects Healthcare Utilization During a 
Pandemic: A Two-Stage Individual Participant Data Meta-Analysis Combining 
Case-Based Registries.

Maisonneuve E(1)(2)(3)(4), De Bruin O(5)(6), Favre G(1)(7), Oakley E(8), Kim 
JYH(8), Farooq F(8), Al-Fadel N(9), Almutairi A(9), Del Mar Gil M(10)(11)(12), 
Fernandez Buhigas I(10)(12), Visentin S(13), Cosmi E(13), Surita F(14), Souza 
RT(14), Cecatti JG(14), Costa ML(14), Sanin-Blair J(15), Tolosa JE(15)(16)(17), 
Hadar E(18), Goncé A(19), Poncelet C(20), Forestier F(20), Quibel T(21), 
Martinez de Tejada B(22), Eggel-Hort B(1)(6), Capoccia Brugger R(23), Surbek 
D(24), Raio L(24), Radan AP(24), Todesco-Bernasconi M(25), Monod C(26), Schäffer 
L(27), Harnadi A(27), Mousavi SH(28)(29), Ayres-de-Campos D(30), Pomar L(1)(31), 
Sichitiu J(1)(32), Salomon LJ(32), Ville Y(32), Papadia A(33), Rossier MC(7), 
Schuler-Faccini L(34), Goncalves Pereira N(35), Etchegaray A(36), Nieto-Calvache 
AJ(37), Geary M(38), Fuenzalida J(39), Grawe C(40), Ko AI(41), Johann S(42), De 
Santis M(43), Voekt CA(44), Hcini N(45), Nielsen-Saines K(46), Garabedian C(47), 
Sentilhes L(48), May Feuerschuette OH(49), Vetter G(50), Wardhana MP(51), Dajti 
I(52), Bloemenkamp KWM(6), Siiskonen SJ(53), Smith ER(8), Baud D(1), Panchaud 
A(2)(54), Sturkenboom MCJM(5).

Author information:
(1)Materno-Fetal and Obstetrics Research Unit, Department "Femme-Mère-Enfant", 
University Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Primary Health Care (BIHAM), University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(3)Graduate School for Health Sciences (GHS), University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(4)Obstetrics Department, Zürich University Hospital, Zürich, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Data Science and Biostatistics, Julius Global Health, 
University Medical Center Utrecht (UMCU), Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Obstetrics, Wilhelmina Children's Hospital, University Medical 
Center Utrecht (UMCU), Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Riviera-Chablais Hospital, Rennaz, 
Switzerland.
(8)Department of Global Health, The George Washington University Milken 
Institute School of Public Health, Washington, DC, USA.
(9)Saudi Food and Drug Authority, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(10)Hospital Universitario de Torrejón, Madrid, Spain.
(11)Obstetrics and Gynecology Department, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, 
Spain.
(12)School of Medicine, Universidad Francisco de Vitoria, Madrid, Spain.
(13)University of Padova, Padova, Italy.
(14)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Universidade Estadual de Campinas 
(UNICAMP), Campinas, Brazil.
(15)Universidad Pontificia Bolivariana, Fundared-Materna, Medellín, Colombia.
(16)St. Luke's University Health Network, Bethlehem, PA, USA.
(17)Oregon Health & Science University, Oregon, USA.
(18)Helen Schneider Hospital for Women, Rabin Medical Center, and the Faculty of 
Medical and Health Sciences, Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(19)Maternal-Fetal Medicine Department, BCNatal-Fetal Medicine Research Center, 
Hospital Clínic and Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(20)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hôpital NOVO Site de Pontoise, 
Cergy-Pontoise, France.
(21)Department of Obstetrics, Maternité Poissy Saint Germain, Poissy, France.
(22)Obstetrics Division, Department of Pediatrics, Gynecology, and Obstetrics, 
Geneva University Hospitals, and Faculty of Medicine, Geneva, Switzerland.
(23)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, RHNE, Neuchâtel, Switzerland.
(24)Department of Obstetrics and Feto-Maternal Medicine, University Hospital of 
Bern, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(25)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Cantonal Hospital Aarau, Aarau, 
Switzerland.
(26)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(27)Division of Obstetrics, Baden Cantonal Hospital, Baden, Switzerland.
(28)Medical Research Center, Kateb University, Kabul, Afghanistan.
(29)Department of Research, Afghanistan National Charity Organization for 
Special Diseases (ANCOSD), Kabul, Afghanistan.
(30)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, University of 
Lisbon; Santa Maria University Hospital, Lisbon, Portugal.
(31)School of Health Sciences (HESAV), University of Applied Sciences and Arts 
Western Switzerland, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(32)Department of Obstetrics and Fetal Medicine, Necker-Enfants Malades 
Hospital, Paris, France.
(33)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Ente Ospedaliero Cantonale, Lugano, 
Switzerland.
(34)Departamento de Genética, Hospital de Clinicas de Porto Alegre, Universidade 
Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(35)Department of Obstetrics and Neonatology, Hospital e Maternidade Sepaco, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(36)Fetal Medicine Unit, Hospital Universitario Austral, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.
(37)Departamenteo de Ginecologia y Obstetricia, Fundación Valle del Lili, Cali, 
Colombia.
(38)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Rotunda Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(39)Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics, Escuela de Medicina, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(40)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Stadtspital Triemli, Zürich, 
Switzerland.
(41)Department of Epidemiology of Microbial Diseases, Yale School of Public 
Health, New Haven, USA.
(42)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Hospital of the Upper Valais, Visp, 
Switzerland.
(43)Telefono Rosso, Teratology Information Service, Fondazione Policlinico 
Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS, Roma, Italy.
(44)Department of Obstetrics, Grabs Hospital, Grabs, Switzerland.
(45)West French Guiana Hospital Center, University of French Guiana, Saint 
Laurent du Maroni, French Guiana.
(46)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, David Geffen UCLA 
School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(47)Department of Obstetrics, CHU Lille, Univ Lille, ULR 2694-METRICS, Lille, 
France.
(48)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Bordeaux University Hospital, 
Bordeaux, France.
(49)Departamento de Ginecologia e Obstetrícia, Hospital Universitário Polydoro 
Ernani de São Thiago, HU-UFSC, Florianópolis, Brazil.
(50)Department of Obstetrics, Kantonsspital Baselland, Liestal, Switzerland.
(51)Obstetrics and Gynecology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Airlangga-Dr. Soetomo Academic General Hospital, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(52)Department of Obstetrics Gynecology, "Koco Gliozheni' University Hospital, 
Tirana, Albania.
(53)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht 
Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.
(54)Service of Pharmacy, Lausanne University Hospital and University of 
Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To describe an international response to the COVID-19 pandemic by 
estimating the prevalence of medication use for COVID-19 treatment in pregnancy, 
stratified by hospitalization, trimester of pregnancy, and country.
METHODS: We conducted a two-stage individual participant data meta-analysis of 
proportions from primary data on medications used to treat COVID-19 during 
pregnancy. A common data model was developed to pool the data from 
single-country and international registries. Data from pregnant individuals with 
COVID-19 between February 2020 and October 2022 were included in study platforms 
across 9 data sources. Patient information was abstracted from medical records.
RESULTS: Among 24 937 pregnant individuals, the pooled prevalences of 
individuals receiving medications to treat COVID-19 were: 34.7% heparin, 9.8% 
antibiotics, 4.9% corticosteroids, 2.2% antivirals, 0.8% antimalarials, 0.3% 
convalescent plasma, 0.2% immunosuppressants, and 0.02% monoclonal antibodies. 
Prevalence of medication use was higher in hospitalized individuals than in 
non-hospitalized individuals: 58.4% versus 17.9% for heparin, 26.9% versus 5.7% 
for antibiotics, 17.5% versus 1.3% for corticosteroids, 10.3% versus 0.3% for 
antivirals, and 4.5% versus 0.1% for antimalarials. The prevalence of 
corticosteroid use was lower in the first trimester (0.1%) compared with the 
second (7.2%) and third (4.9%) trimesters of pregnancy. The prevalence of 
medications differed widely across countries.
CONCLUSION: Medication to treat COVID-19 was more frequently used in pregnant 
individuals hospitalized for COVID-19. Corticosteroids were used less in the 
first trimester of pregnancy. The differences in use between countries could 
reflect differences in the clinical management and access to medications for 
this population at risk of severe disease.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pds.70180
PMID: 40665803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Intensive Care Med. 2025 Jul 16:8850666251359546. doi: 
10.1177/08850666251359546. Online ahead of print.

Severe Community-Acquired Pneumonia: Impact of HIV on Clinical Presentation, 
Microbiological and Laboratory Findings, and Outcome.

Venturas JP(1), Titus A(2), Richards GA(3), Feldman C(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
the Witwatersrand Medical School, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(2)Independent Statistician, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(3)Dept of Surgery, Division of Critical Care, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.

Severe community-acquired pneumonia (SCAP) is associated with significant 
morbidity and mortality, but there is a paucity of data regarding these 
infections in sub-Saharan Africa, especially among people living with HIV 
(PLWH). This study investigated the impact of HIV on clinical presentation, 
microbial aetiology, laboratory findings, and outcome of SCAP. This was 
additional analysis of data from a large, single-centre, retrospective, 
observational study conducted among consecutive adult patients (≥18 years) 
admitted to the multidisciplinary ICU at the Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg 
Academic Hospital, between 1 July 2007 and 31 May 2019, with SCAP. The current 
study describes 718 PLWH and 131 HIV-negative cases extracted from the initial 
cohort. The median age was 37 [IQR 30-46] years with PLWH significantly younger 
than their HIV-negative counterparts (36 years [IQR 29-44] years vs 52 years 
[IQR 34-65] years; P < .001). PLWH were more commonly female (P = .053), while 
more of the HIV-negative patients were male. The median CD4 count of the PLWH 
was 42 [IQR 14-108] cells/mm3 and only 15.5% were on anti-retroviral therapy 
(ART) prior to hospitalisation. Differences were noted in clinical, laboratory 
and radiological features between the groups. Overall, Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis was the most common microbial aetiology in both groups, followed by 
Streptococcus pneumoniae, which was associated with a significantly lower 
mortality, whereas mortality with Pneumocystis jirovecii infection, which 
occurred only in PLWH, was high. Overall ICU mortality was high (48.9%), and 
while HIV was an independent risk factor for mortality (OR 0.58, 95% CI 
0.37-0.92; p = .02) on univariate analysis, this finding was not true when HIV 
considered within the multivariable analysis. This study describes one of the 
largest cohorts of PLWH with SCAP and compares their findings with HIV-negative 
cases. HIV was not a significant predictor of mortality when considered in the 
context of other covariables on multivariable analysis.

DOI: 10.1177/08850666251359546
PMID: 40665761


19. Eur J Immunol. 2025 Jul;55(7):e51848. doi: 10.1002/eji.202551848.

T Cell Response Evaluation After A Fifth Dose of an Inactivated SARS-CoV-2 
Vaccine Using Multiparametric Flow Cytometry.

Román F(1), Reyes A(1), Gutiérrez C(2), Rodríguez-Guilarte L(1), Méndez C(1), 
Moreno-Tapia D(1), Ríos M(1), Cabrera A(3), Carreño LJ(2), González PA(1), Bueno 
SM(1), Kalergis AM(1)(4), Peñaloza HF(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Facultad de Ciencias 
Biológicas, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Programa de 
Inmunología, Instituto de Ciencias Biomédicas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad 
de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Flow Cytometry Facility, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Pontificia 
Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(4)Departamento de Endocrinología, Escuela de Medicina, Facultad de Medicina, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(5)Departamento de Laboratorios Clínicos, Escuela de Medicina, Facultad de 
Medicina, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

The T cell response induced by SARS-CoV-2 vaccines is an essential component of 
immune protection against COVID-19. Multiparametric flow cytometry analysis 
emerges as a valuable tool for in-depth assessment of T cell phenotype nuances 
that occur after booster vaccination, such as a fifth dose of an inactivated 
SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. Figure created with BioRender.com.

© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.202551848
PMID: 40665756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Tuberc Respir Dis (Seoul). 2025 Jul 16. doi: 10.4046/trd.2024.0185. Online
ahead  of print.

Clinical characteristics and impact of Clostridium difficile infection during 
treatment of rifampicin-susceptible pulmonary tuberculosis.

Ha SW(1), Hwang S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Masan National Tuberculosis Hospital, 
Changwon, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Anti-tuberculosis (TB) treatment, although infrequently associated 
with Clostridium difficile infection (CDI), necessitates updated research on the 
incidence and clinical features of CDI among TB patients, especially as the 
demographic of older TB patients in South Korea is growing.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 168 patients with rifampin-susceptible 
pulmonary TB were enrolled in this study. Initial clinical features of the 
CDI-suspected group, risk factors for CDI, the primary outcome of all-cause 
mortality, and secondary outcomes, including delayed conversion of AFB smear and 
culture, were analyzed.
RESULTS: The incidence rate of CDI among TB patients was 15.0 cases per 10,000 
patient-days. Among initial features associated with TB-related CDI, patients 
exhibiting diarrhea of Bristol Stool Scale type 7 for more than two days were 
more likely to receive a CDI diagnosis. Old age and hypoalbuminemia were 
significant risk factors for CDI occurrence. In the primary outcome analysis, 
CDI was associated with a 4.63-fold increase in all-cause mortality according to 
the unadjusted analysis. However, this association dissipated in the adjusted 
analysis. Older age, underlying respiratory disease, and pneumonia at baseline 
were strong predictors of all-cause mortality. No significant factors were 
detected in the analysis of delayed AFB smear and culture conversion.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the lack of an independent association between CDI and 
all-cause mortality among TB patients, monitoring older adults with 
undernutrition and persistent diarrhea for CDI is crucial.

DOI: 10.4046/trd.2024.0185
PMID: 40665674


21. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2025 Dec;21(1):2528409. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2025.2528409. Epub 2025 Jul 15.

Economic evaluations of vaccines against respiratory infections in adults in 
Southeast Asia: A systematic review.

Cao BK(1)(2), Hanifa RS(1), Nguyen TP(2), Postma MJ(1)(3)(4)(5), van der Schans 
J(1)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(2)Faculty of Public Health, Thai Nguyen University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Thai Nguyen, Vietnam.
(3)Center of Excellence in Higher Education for Pharmaceutical Care Innovation, 
Universitas Padjadjaran, Bandung, Indonesia.
(4)Department of Economics, Econometrics, and Finance, University of Groningen, 
Groningen, Netherlands.
(5)Division of Pharmacology & Therapy, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Airlangga, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(6)Department of Economics, Econometrics and Finance, Faculty of Economics and 
Business, University of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(7)Faculty of Management Sciences, Open University, Heerlen, Netherlands.

Respiratory infections significantly impact adult health in Southeast Asia, yet 
vaccine coverage remains low. This systematic review evaluated the economic 
evaluations of vaccines targeting respiratory infections in the region. A 
comprehensive search was conducted across several databases, including 
MEDLINE/PubMed, EMBASE, NHSEED, CINAHL, EconLit, Web of Science, Scopus, and 
Cochrane Library, up to April 24, 2024. Nineteen eligible studies were 
identified, focusing primarily on influenza (8 studies) and COVID-19 vaccines (7 
studies), with fewer studies on pneumococcal (2 studies), varicella (1 study), 
and pertussis (1 study) vaccines. Overall, influenza, COVID-19 (boosters), and 
pneumococcal vaccines were found to be cost-effective or highly cost-effective 
compared to no-vaccine or no-booster scenarios. The only study on maternal 
pertussis vaccination found it not to be cost-effective. The most common 
parameters considered in sensitivity analyses were vaccine efficacy and discount 
rates. This review highlights the economic evaluations of influenza, COVID-19, 
and pneumococcal vaccines in Southeast Asia, providing essential evidence to 
guide vaccine policy. Future studies should address limitations in model 
selection, incorporate herd immunity, ensure the model validation (i.e. validity 
of cost and benefit measurements), and explore the cost-effectiveness of other 
vaccines across the region.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2025.2528409
PMID: 40665593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Rural Health. 2025 Jun;41(3):e70049. doi: 10.1111/jrh.70049.

Enduring lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic: Advancing virtual care for 
substance use disorders in rural America.

LaPorte TM(1), McGinnis S(1), Lacy G(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Services Research, University at Albany, Albany, New York, 
USA.

PURPOSE: This study explores how rural substance use disorder (SUD) treatment 
providers in New York State adapted to pandemic-era policy changes by rapidly 
adopting virtual care, identifying both challenges and opportunities to inform 
future practice.
METHODS: Thematic analysis of qualitative data from individual interviews with 
12 SUD treatment providers and a focus group with an additional 6 providers in 
rural New York State was conducted between February and May 2021, capturing 
experiences with virtual care during the COVID-19 pandemic.
FINDINGS: The pandemic drove swift virtual care adoption, overcoming some rural 
barriers to SUD treatment access, like limited transportation and provider 
shortages. Providers noted enhanced flexibility, allowing more person-centered 
care adapting to clients' logistical challenges. However, limitations emerged, 
including digital access disparities, reduced client accountability, and 
challenges establishing therapeutic relationships-especially for new clients or 
group sessions. Virtual care effectiveness varied by treatment stage, client 
demographics, and access to reliable technology.
CONCLUSIONS: Although virtual care presents opportunities to expand rural SUD 
treatment access, a hybrid model combining in-person and virtual care may better 
meet diverse client needs. Addressing technological inequities and tailoring 
approaches to individual circumstances are essential for future interventions.

© 2025 National Rural Health Association.

DOI: 10.1111/jrh.70049
PMID: 40665549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Clin Respir J. 2025 Jul;19(7):e70104. doi: 10.1111/crj.70104.

Association of COPD With Clinical Outcomes After Hospital Admission in 
SARS-CoV-2 Patients During the Omicron Variant Period: A Retrospective Cohort 
Study.

Tang R(1), Li L(2), Wang S(3), Zhou F(3), Li R(3), Zhao Y(3), Zhou L(3), Tian 
W(3), Yuan Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Hebei Medical University, 
Tangshan Gongren Hospital, Tangshan, China.
(2)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, China-Japan Friendship 
Hospital, National Clinical Research Center of Respiratory Diseases, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Tangshan Gongren 
Hospital, Tangshan, China.
(4)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The Second Hospital of 
Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China.

BACKGROUND: Pre-Omicron studies identified chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) as a significant risk factor for adverse COVID-19 outcomes. Given 
Omicron's altered pathogenicity and widespread population-level immunity, the 
association between COPD and COVID-19 outcomes warrants reassessment in light of 
the variant's distinct clinical profile. We evaluated whether COPD remained a 
risk factor for poor clinical outcomes among hospitalized patients with 
SARS-CoV-2 infection during Omicron predominance.
METHODS: We conducted a two-center retrospective cohort study of 1176 adults 
hospitalized with confirmed Omicron infection between January 2022 and December 
2023 in Northern China. Patients were stratified by pre-existing COPD status. To 
address confounding by treatment selection, inverse probability weighting (IPW) 
was applied based on the likelihood of receiving inhaled corticosteroids. 
Multivariable logistic regression models, adjusted for comorbidities, disease 
severity (as measured by the PSI), inflammatory markers (CRP, D-dimer, NLR, 
LDH), and treatment regimens, were used to evaluate the associations between 
COPD and in-hospital outcomes.
RESULTS: Among 1176 patients (337 COPD; 839 non-COPD), COPD patients had 
significantly lower PSI scores and lower levels of systemic inflammation despite 
a higher prevalence of respiratory comorbidities. In unadjusted models, COPD was 
associated with reduced odds of mortality (OR 0.52), respiratory failure (OR 
0.24), and ventilatory support. However, after IPW adjustment, these 
associations were no longer statistically significant (mortality: adjusted OR 
0.90, 95% CI 0.22-3.74, p = 0.887).
CONCLUSIONS: COPD was not independently associated with increased risk of 
mortality, respiratory failure, or ventilatory support in hospitalized 
Omicron-infected patients after rigorous adjustment for confounding. These 
findings suggest a shifting risk profile for COPD during Omicron predominance, 
likely influenced by variant tropism, treatment effects, and altered 
inflammatory responses. Future prospective studies are warranted to validate 
these findings and explore the mechanisms underlying this observed shift.

© 2025 The Author(s). The Clinical Respiratory Journal published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/crj.70104
PMID: 40665508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Disaster Med Public Health Prep. 2025 Jul 16;19:e185. doi: 
10.1017/dmp.2025.10066.

Journaling During a Disaster: Challenges and Opportunities for Data Collection.

Jenks D(1), Angotti N(2), Madhavan S(3), Henry A(2), Herrera K(4), Mendoza Gomez 
C(5).

Author information:
(1)https://ror.org/00b30xv10University of Pennsylvania, Department of Sociology, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(2)https://ror.org/052w4zt36American University, Department of Sociology, 
Washington DC, USA.
(3)https://ror.org/047s2c258University of Maryland, Department of African 
American and Africana Studies, Department of Sociology, College Park, MD, USA.
(4)https://ror.org/047s2c258University of Maryland, Department of Education, 
College Park, MD, USA.
(5)https://ror.org/00y4zzh67George Washington University Miliken School of 
Public Health, Department of Epidemiology, Washington DC, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This paper describes challenges and opportunities for data 
collection during a disaster, focusing on how young adults in the United States 
navigated the initial period of the COVID-19 pandemic--a disaster which 
introduced significant uncertainty and precarity both for individuals and the 
research process.
METHODS: This paper draws on lessons from a small exploratory study which used 
journaling techniques as a data collection tool.
RESULTS: Journaling addressed 3 key challenges to collecting data during a 
public health crisis: 1) accessing respondents when preparation time and 
resources are limited; 2) ensuring protection for both participants and 
researchers in a context when human interaction is severely constrained; and 3) 
needing both rapid response and flexibility in research design and data 
collection.
CONCLUSIONS: Journaling techniques are a feasible, efficient and effective tool 
that can be adapted and utilized in various disaster contexts, including other 
pandemics and extreme climate events.

DOI: 10.1017/dmp.2025.10066
PMID: 40665496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2025 Dec;21(1):2533639. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2025.2533639. Epub 2025 Jul 15.

From institutional trust to digital literacy: Socioeconomic and political 
determinants of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy among Czech adults based on a 
national panel survey.

Riad A(1)(2), Bahavan B(1), Koščik M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, 
Czech Republic.
(2)Masaryk Centre for Global Health (MCGH), Department of Public Health, Faculty 
of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.

Vaccine hesitancy remains a significant public health challenge, particularly 
during pandemics when high immunization rates are crucial. While individual 
psychological antecedents of vaccine hesitancy have been extensively studied, 
limited empirical evidence exists on how contextual determinants, such as 
socioeconomic status, political trust, and digital literacy, collectively shape 
vaccine-related behaviors, particularly in Central European populations. This 
study explores the key determinants of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy among Czech 
adults. A cross-sectional study was conducted using data from the 48th wave of 
the Czech national panel survey Život během pandemie [Life During Pandemic], 
carried out in March 2023. The data were obtained via an online questionnaire 
administered to a nationally representative sample of Czech adults (n = 1,708). 
Sociodemographic, socioeconomic, and anamnestic variables were examined 
alongside political attitudes. Psychological antecedents of vaccination were 
assessed using the 5C model (confidence, complacency, constraints, risk 
calculation, and collective responsibility), and digital vaccine literacy was 
measured using seven items covering trust in official sources, trust in social 
media, and the ability to evaluate and apply vaccine information. Statistical 
analyses included bivariate tests and multivariable regression models to 
identify vaccine uptake and intent determinants. Higher trust in constitutional 
institutions, including the president (OR = 1.55; 95/ CI: 1.38-1.74), government 
(1.60; 1.38-1.85), Chamber of Deputies (1.73; 1.48-2.02), and Senate (1.47; 
1.29-1.69), was significantly associated with higher vaccine uptake. Similarly, 
positive attitudes toward the integration of Ukrainian refugees into Czech 
society - across domains such as work (1.63; 1.39-1.90), housing (1.59; 
1.36-1.86), school (1.64; 1.41-1.92), language (1.57; 1.34-1.84), and culture 
(1.74; 1.50-2.03) - were positively associated with uptake. Greater confidence 
in vaccine safety and effectiveness was also a significant predictor (1.51; 
1.44-1.58). In contrast, lower education (0.64; 0.56-0.73), lower income (0.91; 
0.86-0.95), female sex (0.60; 0.47-0.76), and higher complacency (0.76; 
0.73-0.80) were associated with reduced uptake. Respondents with better digital 
vaccine literacy, particularly those more adept at identifying misinformation, 
showed significantly greater vaccine confidence (mean score: 3.62 vs. 3.30, 
p < .001). Beyond psychological antecedents, institutional trust, political 
orientation, and digital vaccine literacy significantly shape COVID-19 
vaccination behaviors. These findings underscore the importance of targeted 
interventions that address political and digital influences on vaccine 
hesitancy, and they highlight the need for future research to examine the causal 
pathways and longitudinal dynamics underlying these associations, particularly 
within Central and Eastern European contexts.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2025.2533639
PMID: 40665470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Intensive Care. 2025 Jul 15;13(1):39. doi: 10.1186/s40560-025-00810-1.

Mortality of severe pneumonia treated with methylprednisolone versus 
hydrocortisone: a propensity-matched analysis.

Sato T(1), Sasabuchi Y(2), Inokuchi R(3), Aso S(2), Yasunaga H(2), Doi K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, The University of Tokyo 
Hospital, 7-3-1, Hongo, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo, 1138655, Japan. 
satot-eme88@g.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Health Economics, School of Public 
Health, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1, Hongo, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo, 1138655, Japan.
(3)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, The University of Tokyo 
Hospital, 7-3-1, Hongo, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo, 1138655, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Corticosteroids improve the outcomes of severe pneumonia; however, 
the most effective type remains unknown. In this study, we compared the 
mortality rates of patients with severe pneumonia who were treated with 
methylprednisolone versus those treated with hydrocortisone.
METHODS: In this retrospective observational study, we utilized a nationwide 
Japanese Diagnosis Procedure Combination inpatient database to include adult 
patients with severe pneumonia who were admitted to hospitals between April 2017 
and March 2022 and received either methylprednisolone or hydrocortisone. 
Propensity score matching was used to adjust for measured confounders, with 
in-hospital mortality as the primary outcome.
RESULTS: Among the 5,084 eligible patients, 623 matched pairs were analyzed. 
In-hospital mortality rates were 23.9% in the hydrocortisone group and 19.4% in 
the methylprednisolone group (risk difference [RD], 4.5%; 95% confidence 
interval [CI] -0.082 to 9.1; p = 0.054). Subgroup analysis of patients with 
shock demonstrated significantly higher mortality in the hydrocortisone group 
than in the methylprednisolone group (44.7% versus 30.1%; RD, 14.6%; 95% CI 
1.4-27.8; p = 0.031).
CONCLUSION: No significant difference in in-hospital mortality was observed 
between patients with severe pneumonia treated with methylprednisolone and those 
treated with hydrocortisone. Nevertheless, patients experiencing severe 
pneumonia-induced septic shock may derive benefits from methylprednisolone 
treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40560-025-00810-1
PMID: 40665428

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Institutional Review Board of the 
University of Tokyo (approval number: 3501-5; May 19, 2021) for clinical 
epidemiological studies using DPC data. Given the unidentified nature of the 
data, the requirement for informed consent was waived. Consent for publication: 
Given the unidentified nature of the data, the requirement for informed consent 
was waived. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


27. BMC Res Notes. 2025 Jul 15;18(1):292. doi: 10.1186/s13104-025-07377-y.

Preventive behaviors related to COVID-19 based on social cognitive integrative 
model constructs among medical students: A cross-sectional study.

Mirzaie A(1), Gholamnia-Shirvani Z(2), Jahani MA(3), Nikbakht HA(3), Pakpour 
A(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, 
Iran.
(2)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Health Research Institute, 
Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran. Z.gholamnia@yahoo.com.
(3)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Health Research Institute, 
Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(4)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Research Institute for 
Prevention Non-communicable Diseases, Qazvin University of Medical Sciences, 
Qazvin, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: The COVID-19 outbreak in Iran has prompted the investigation of 
preventive behaviors in vulnerable and key groups. This descriptive and 
analytical cross-sectional study determined preventive behaviors for COVID-19 
among medical students using an integrated social cognition model and identified 
influencing factors.
RESULTS: The study of 650 medical students with a mean age of 24.37 ± 3.78 years 
showed that the total scores of the integrated social cognition model and 
COVID-19 prevention behaviors were at the medium level, 85.44 ± 8.70 out of 155 
and 10.78 ± 1.99 out of 20 scores, respectively. Univariate and multivariate 
regression analysis showed that the variables of marital status (β=-1.95 
[CI95%=-3.36 to -0.53], P = 0.007), maternal literacy (β = 2.59 [CI95%=0.96 to 
4.21], P = 0.002), paternal literacy (β = 2.47 [CI95%=0.89 to 4.04], P = 0.002), 
place of residence (β = 3.46 [CI95%=2.14 to 4.79], P = < 0.001), being a native 
(β = 1.70 [CI95%=0.21 to 3.19], P = 0.025), and educational level (β=-3.16 
[CI95%=-1.64 to -4.68], P = < 0.001) are strong independent predictors of 
COVID-19 preventive behaviors. Single students, parents with university 
education, were nondormitory and native, and at the basic science level earned 
higher scores for the model constructs (p < 0.05). These results can be used to 
design an educational intervention for COVID-19 preventive behaviors in medical 
students.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-025-07377-y
PMID: 40665427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The code of ethics (IR.MUBABOL.HRI.REC.1400.144) was got from the 
Ethics Committee of Babol University of Medical Sciences, and informed consent 
was got from the participants. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


28. BMC Med Educ. 2025 Jul 15;25(1):1061. doi: 10.1186/s12909-025-07386-2.

Remote online teaching beyond COVID-19 pandemic: a qualitative study across 
Physiotherapy programs in Italy.

Di Bari M(1)(2), Deodato M(3), Paci M(4)(5), Gatti R(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, 
Largo Brambilla, 3, Florence, 50134, Italy. mauro.dibari@unifi.it.
(2)Unit of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, Azienda 
Ospedaliero-Universitaria Careggi, Largo Brambilla, 3, Florence, 50134, Italy. 
mauro.dibari@unifi.it.
(3)Department of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, University of Trieste, 
Trieste, Italy.
(4)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, 
Largo Brambilla, 3, Florence, 50134, Italy.
(5)Department of Allied Health Professions, Azienda USL Toscana Centro, 
Florence, Italy.
(6)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center - IRCCS, and Department of Biomedical 
Sciences, Humanitas University, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: With the lockdown imposed by the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) 
pandemic, remote online teaching (ROT) became pivotal in the rapid 
reorganization imposed on the healthcare professions' educational programs. 
Physiotherapy programs were particularly affected, as they are characterized by 
hard and soft skills that are hardly learned with ROT. The purpose of the 
present study was to investigate the experiences and opinions on ROT by 
faculties involved in the education and training of Physiotherapy students 
during the pandemic, and on its possible application thereafter.
METHODS: Following accreditated checklists for qualitative research, 
semi-structured interviews were conducted by members of the National Directorate 
of the Physiotherapy programs in Italy. Academic directors (AD) and clinical 
training coordinators (CTC) of Italian Physiotherapy programs were randomly 
selected and interviewed, to collect their experiences and opinions on the use 
of ROT before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic. Iterative rounds of 
readings and discussions were conducted to analyze the interviews.
RESULTS: A total of 22 participants were interviewed, reaching a satisfactory 
level of saturation. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, ROT was used sporadically in 
academic activities; during the pandemic, participants familiarized themselves 
rapidly with this new approach, which was generally abandoned thereafter. After 
initial difficulties, most participants recognized the importance of ROT in 
preserving education during the lockdown. A negative impact on Physiotherapy 
students was occasionally reported, especially during their final exam and 
thesis dissertation. Despite the limitations of ROT in Physiotherapy education, 
participants recognized its advantages in supporting administrative tasks, 
sharing lectures, and creating international programs. Its potential for 
pedagogical innovation and the opportunity for investments in Internet-based 
didactic approaches were also underlined.
CONCLUSIONS: ROT was perceived as an important tool to preserve Physiotherapy 
programs during the COVID-19 pandemic. Although it was in general discontinued 
after the pandemic, many participants believed that it might contribute to 
establishing a "new normal" didactic paradigm in Physiotherapy education.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12909-025-07386-2
PMID: 40665301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study adheres to the Declaration of Helsinki. The study did not 
require Ethics Committee review, according to the “Ethics and data protection” 
regulations of the European advisory body and European Commission [29, 30]. 
Informed consent for registration and its use was obtained from each participant 
at the start of registration. Consent for publication: N.A. Competing interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests.


29. BMC Public Health. 2025 Jul 15;25(1):2459. doi: 10.1186/s12889-025-23648-6.

The optimal strategy for seasonal influenza vaccination to prevent 
high-intensity level of influenza epidemics in Zhejiang, China: an integrated 
transmission-dynamic and health-economic modeling analysis.

Chen M(#)(1), Yang M(#)(2), Yan R(#)(1), Liu Z(#)(1), Chen C(1), Qu R(1), Zhou 
W(1), Qi J(1), Cao K(1), Miao J(1), Wu X(1), Chen J(1), Feng Q(1), Zhang H(1), 
Dai A(1), Yang Y(1), Zhou J(1), Chen Q(3), Sun J(4), Yang S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Second Affiliated Hospital, Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, The Key Laboratory of 
Intelligent Preventive Medicine of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang University School 
of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Quzhou People's Hospital, No.100 of Minjiang Street, Quzhou, 32400, Zhejiang, 
China.
(3)Department of Public Health, Ningbo No.2 Hospital, Ningbo, China. 
Qin_Chen_PHP@yeah.net.
(4)Department of Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Zhejiang 
Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Hangzhou, China. 
jmsun@cdc.zj.cn.
(5)Department of Emergency Medicine, Second Affiliated Hospital, Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, The Key Laboratory of 
Intelligent Preventive Medicine of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang University School 
of Medicine, Hangzhou, China. yangshigui@zju.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Although Seasonal Influenza Vaccination (SIV) is a crucial 
preventive measure, achieving sufficient coverage to completely control 
influenza epidemics poses a significant challenge. This study aims to evaluate 
optimal strategies for SIV to prevent high-intensity level of influenza 
epidemics in Zhejiang Province, China. High-intensity outbreaks were defined as 
weekly incidence rates above 72.2 per 100,000.
METHODS: This study estimated the incidence of influenza from 2018 to 2023 in 
Zhejiang Province, China, using influenza weekly surveillance data. We developed 
a Susceptible-Vaccinated-Infectious-Recovered-Susceptible (SVIRS) model to 
simulate influenza transmission and used a decision tree to assess seven 
vaccination strategies aimed at preventing high-intensity influenza outbreaks. 
These strategies differed in vaccine coverage across the three age groups: 0-14 
years, 15-59 years, and 60 + years, despite having the same overall vaccination 
coverage.
RESULTS: Between 2018 and 2020, influenza incidence in Zhejiang Province 
followed typical seasonal patterns. However, during the COVID-19 pandemic, these 
patterns became irregular, culminating in a high-intensity influenza season in 
2022-2023. Model simulations indicated that increasing population-wide 
vaccination coverage to 36.17% could effectively prevent outbreaks from 
escalating to high-intensity levels. Among various allocation strategies for 
additional vaccines, targeting individuals aged 0-14 years and those aged 60 
years and older was found to be the most effective. This approach reduced the 
peak weekly incidence rate from the observed 182.83 to a predicted 42.28 per 
100,000, saved 23.45 CNY per capita, and yielded a health gain of 0.0102 
quality-adjusted life days (QALDs) per person.
CONCLUSION: Achieving a population-wide vaccination coverage beyond 36.17% is 
projected to prevent high-intensity level of influenza epidemics. Targeting the 
0-14 years and 60 + years age groups proves to be the most cost-effective 
strategy under constrained coverage conditions. These findings highlight the 
importance of age-prioritized vaccination policies to optimize resource 
allocation and mitigate the impact of influenza outbreaks, particularly in 
regions with limited healthcare capacity.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-025-23648-6
PMID: 40665279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study did not require ethics approval and consent to 
participate because it did not include individual-level information, ensuring no 
privacy concerns. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests.


30. Int J Hematol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s12185-025-04024-x. Online ahead of 
print.

Intravenous umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stromal cell therapy may improve 
overall survival in Japanese patients with idiopathic pneumonia syndrome after 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: a multicenter, single-arm, phase II 
trial.

Doki N(1), Fujii N(2), Kako S(3), Sakaida E(4), Kanda Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Hematology Division, Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious Diseases 
Center, Komagome Hospital, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo, Japan. noriko_doki@tmhp.jp.
(2)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Okayama University Hospital, Kita-Ku, 
Okayama, Okayama, Japan.
(3)Division of Hematology, Jichi Medical University Saitama Medical Center, 
Omiya-Ku, Saitama, Saitama, Japan.
(4)Department of Hematology, Chiba University Hospital, Chiba, Chiba, Japan.
(5)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Jichi Medical University, 
Shimotsuke, Tochigi, Japan.

Idiopathic pneumonia syndrome (IPS) is a serious complication of allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and has a poor prognosis. 
Although IPS is often treated with steroids, the disease can become resistant to 
or dependent on steroid treatment, and there is no effective cure for patients 
with refractory or steroid-dependent IPS. This multicenter, open-label, 
single-arm, phase II clinical trial investigated the efficacy and safety of 
HLC-001 (allogeneic umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stromal cells) in 
patients with progressive steroid-dependent or refractory IPS after HSCT. Seven 
male patients (all male; mean age: 43.3 years) received HLC-001 and three 
completed the trial. The survival rate at day 56 (primary endpoint) was 71.4% 
(5/7 patients; 95% confidence interval: 29.0%-96.3%) and was sustained at day 
100, suggesting that HLC-001 was more effective than previously reported 
treatment. Three of the five patients with ≥ 100 days of follow-up died. Five 
patients experienced at least one adverse drug reaction, none of which were 
serious. These findings indicate that HLC-001 was potentially effective and 
generally well tolerated in Japanese patients with steroid-dependent or 
refractory IPS after HSCT. Given there is no effective cure for 
steroid-dependent or refractory IPS, HLC-001 may be a promising treatment option 
and further clinical evaluation is warranted.Trial registration: Japan Registry 
of Clinical Trials identifier: jRCT2063220014.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12185-025-04024-x
PMID: 40665186

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: ND, NF, SK, 
ES, and YK received support for medical writing, article processing charges, 
research funding, and advisory fees from Human Life CORD Japan Inc., related to 
the submitted work. ND received research funding from The Japan Agency for 
Medical Research and Development (AMED) (24ek0510039h0003), and a Grant-in-Aid 
for Scientific Research (KAKENHI) (23K06709); consulting fees from Janssen 
Pharmaceutical K.K.; and honoraria from AbbVie G.K., Asahi Kasei Pharma 
Corporation, Astellas Pharma Inc., AstraZeneca K.K., Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., 
Ltd., Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd., Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., Kyowa Kirin Co., 
Ltd., MSD K.K., Nippon Shinyaku Co., Ltd., Novartis Pharma K.K., Otsuka 
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Pfizer Japan Inc., Sanofi K.K., Shionogi & Co., Ltd., 
and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., outside the submitted work. NF received 
honoraria from Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation, Astellas Pharma Inc., 
Bristol-Myers Squibb K.K., Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Daiichi Sankyo Co., 
Ltd., Gilead Sciences, Inc., Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., Kyowa Kirin Co., Ltd., 
MSD K.K., and Novartis Pharma K.K. SK received research funding from JSH 
Kanto-Koshinetsu district; honoraria from AbbVie G.K., Amgen K.K., Asahi Kasei 
Pharma Corporation, Astellas Pharma Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb K.K., Chugai 
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., CSL Behring K.K., Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd., Eisai Co., 
Ltd., Gilead Sciences, Inc., Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., Kyowa Kirin Co., Ltd., 
Meiji Seika Pharma Co., Ltd., Nippon Kayaku Co., Ltd., Nippon Shinyaku Co., 
Ltd., Novartis Pharma K.K., Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Otsuka Pharmaceutical 
Co., Ltd., Pfizer Japan Inc., Sanofi K.K., SymBio Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Taiho 
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.; and support for 
attending meetings from Pfizer Japan Inc., outside the submitted work. ES 
received research funding from Bristol-Myers Squibb K.K., The Japan Agency for 
Medical Research and Development (AMED) (23808509), and a Grant-in-Aid for 
Scientific Research (KAKENHI) (22K08471); honoraria from Amgen K.K., AbbVie 
G.K., Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation, Astellas Pharma Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb 
K.K., Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., CSL Behring K.K., Daiichi Sankyo Co., 
Ltd., Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., Kyowa Kirin Co., Ltd., Meiji Seika Pharma 
Co., Ltd., Nippon Kayaku Co., Ltd., Nihon Servier Co., Ltd., Nippon Shinyaku 
Co., Ltd., Novartis Pharma K.K., Ohara Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Ono 
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Pfizer Japan Inc., 
Sanofi K.K., Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., 
Ltd.; fees for educational events from Kyowa Kirin Co., Ltd.; fees for advisory 
board participation from Bristol-Myers Squibb K.K., Nihon Servier Co., Ltd., 
Novartis Pharma K.K., Ohara Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., 
Ltd., and Pfizer Japan Inc.; and served as an unpaid vice director of the Japan 
Adult Leukemia Study Group (JALSG), outside the submitted work. YK received 
research funding from Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., 
Ltd., Japan Blood Products Organization, Kyowa Kirin Co., Ltd., Nippon Kayaku 
Co., Ltd., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., and Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd.; and 
honoraria from Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation, Astellas Pharma Inc., AstraZeneca 
K.K., Bristol-Myers Squibb K.K., Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., CSL Behring 
K.K., Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd., Eisai Co., Ltd., Eli Lilly Japan K.K. GENOVA, 
Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., Kowa Co., Ltd. Kyowa Kirin Co., Ltd., MSD K.K., 
Nikkei Visual Images, Inc., Nippon Kayaku Co., Ltd., Nippon Shinyaku Co., Ltd., 
Novartis Pharma K.K., Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., 
Ltd., Pfizer Japan Inc., Pharma Essentia Japan K.K., Research Organization of 
Information and Systems, PRECISION, R’s park Incorporated, Sanofi K.K., Sumitomo 
Pharma Co., Ltd., SymBio Pharmaceuticals Ltd., and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., 
Ltd., outside the submitted work. YK also serves as an Associate Editor for the 
International Journal of Hematology.


31. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25617. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-11389-w.

Emotional state in patients after COVID-19 in relation to comprehensive 
rehabilitation, Brain-Derived neurotrophic factor, Irisin levels, and selected 
clinical factors.

Mińko A(1), Turoń-Skrzypińska A(2), Rył A(2), Rotter I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Rehabilitation and Clinical Physiotherapy, Pomeranian 
Medical University, Szczecin, 71-210, Poland. alicja.minko287@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Medical Rehabilitation and Clinical Physiotherapy, Pomeranian 
Medical University, Szczecin, 71-210, Poland.

The outbreak of the COVID-19 epidemic is a breach of health protection 
worldwide. Complications in people who limit the risk of COVID-19 can be 
associated with physical and mental health. Identification of states associated 
with anxiety and depression and threats that may occur in patients after 
COVID-19 is a very important aspect that occurs on the selection of therapeutic 
methods, and thus recovery occurs. The aim of the study was to assess the 
penalty in the treatment of anxiety symptoms and depressiveness in a patient 
after COVID-19. The study includes the effects resulting from brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor, irisin and other problems related to problems and 
depressive symptoms in patients after COVID-19. included in the study 
participation in the rehabilitation education program in stationary conditions. 
The Generalized Anxiety Disorder Questionnaire was used to solve anxiety 
problems. The Beck Depression Inventory was used to assess the effects of 
depression. To assess the update of the irisin (ng/mL) and brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (ng/mL) configuration on the day of treatment initiation 
from each patient's blood was collected from a female venous sample. After 
rehabilitation, patients scored lower in both depression and anxiety 
assessments. Women had higher scores in the assessment of anxiety disorders and 
depression. The longer the period from the end of COVID-19 treatment to the 
start of rehabilitation, the higher the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 
Questionnaire and The Beck Depression Inventory scores. The higher the 
Generalized Anxiety Disorder Questionnaire and The Beck Depression Inventory 
scores, the lower the handgrip strength values. With increasing irisin 
concentration, The Beck Depression Inventory values also increased. 
Comprehensive rehabilitation may be associated with a reduction in the severity 
of anxiety and depressive symptoms in patients after COVID-19. Earlier 
initiation of rehabilitation may be associated with better emotional well-being 
in patients after COVID-19. The severity of anxiety and depressive symptoms may 
be associated with gender, age, and hospitalization during COVID-19 treatment. 
Increased irisin levels in patients after COVID-19 may be associated with 
inflammatory and metabolic complications after infection. However, 
interpretation of these relationships requires further studies taking into 
account additional biological variables and prospective analyses.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-11389-w
PMID: 40665009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Institutional review board statement: The study 
was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and approved by the 
Bioethics Committee of the Pomeranian Medical University (protocol code 
KB-0012/15/2021 of 28 June 2023). Informed consent Statement: Informed consent 
was obtained from all subjects involved in the study.


32. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 16;15(1):25681. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-11615-5.

Characterization of natural therapeutic compounds producing novel bacterial 
strains isolated from Hyderabad, India.

Bhrdwaj A(1)(2), Nayarisseri A(3), Singh SK(4).

Author information:
(1)In silico Research Laboratory, Eminent Biosciences, Indore, 452 010, Madhya 
Pradesh, India.
(2)Computer Aided Drug Design and Molecular Modelling Lab, Department of 
Bioinformatics, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, 630 003, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)In silico Research Laboratory, Eminent Biosciences, Indore, 452 010, Madhya 
Pradesh, India. anuraj@eminentbio.com.
(4)Computer Aided Drug Design and Molecular Modelling Lab, Department of 
Bioinformatics, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, 630 003, Tamil Nadu, India. 
skysanjeev@gmail.com.

Natural products (NPs) are secondary metabolites that exert their biological 
effects within and on other organisms. Bacteria are considered potent producers 
of bioactive natural compounds, due to their versatile biocatalytic activity. 
The present study aims to isolate, identify, and analyze four novel bacterial 
strains that have the potential to produce NPs. The novelty was determined via 
taxonomical assessment using various biochemical and quantitative antagonistic 
screening assays. 16S rRNA molecular characterization and bioinformatics 
analysis identified the isolates as Klebsiella pneumoniae strain ABSKSLAB01, 
Klebsiella quasipneumonia strain ABSKSLAB02, Streptomyces minutiscleroticus 
strain ABSKSLAB03, and Streptomyces peucetius strain ABSKSLAB04. Their bacterial 
sequences were deposited in the GenBank database with accession numbers 
'OP597532', 'OP597545', 'OQ061473', and 'PP086938', respectively. Among all the 
bacterial strains, ABSKSLAB04 demonstrated the highest antagonistic activity and 
the potential to produce NPs. Further optimization studies using the OVAT 
approach and statistical investigations via Plackett-Burman, RSM-Box-Behnken 
design, and artificial neural network rendered the optimized culture conditions 
to produce NPs: pH 7 ± 1.2, temperature 40 ± 5 °C, and inositol concentration of 
5.5 ± 1.5, resulting in maximum antagonistic activity of 29.81 mm. The ANN model 
reflected superior predictive capacity compared to the RSM model with enhanced 
statistical metrics: R2 (92.23%), MSE (0.0277), and RMSE (0.1477). ANN optimized 
production yield was measured at 580 mg/L, reflecting a 1.57-fold enhancement 
over the pre-optimized conditions (370 mg/L), and a 1.22-fold improvement 
compared to the RSM model (450 mg/L). This highlighted the ANN model's 
robustness in modeling complex nonlinear relationships and optimizing the 
bioprocess parameters with higher fidelity. Therefore, the results from the 
study conclude the potential of the designated bacterial strain (ABSKSLAB04) to 
produce NPs with enhanced antimicrobial and antineoplastic characteristics. The 
strain can further be utilized in biotechnological paradigms by scaling up in 
the pharmaceutical and industrial sectors for therapeutic applications.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-11615-5
PMID: 40664890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Consent to participate: Informed consent was 
obtained from all individual participants included in the study. Consent to 
publish: The authors have consented to the submission of the case report to the 
journal.


33. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25537. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10895-1.

Dysregulated type I/III interferon system in circulation from patients with 
anti-MDA5-positive dermatomyositis.

Yoshida A(1), Gono T(1)(2), Okazaki Y(1), Shimizu M(3), Igarashi Y(4), Kitahara 
Y(5), Fujisawa T(5), Suda T(5), Yokobori S(4), Morita R(3), Kuwana M(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Allergy and Rheumatology, Nippon Medical School Graduate School 
of Medicine, 1-1-5, Sendagi, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan.
(2)Scleroderma/Myositis Center of Excellence, Nippon Medical School Hospital, 
Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Nippon Medical School Graduate 
School of Medicine, Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan.
(4)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, Nippon Medical School 
Graduate School of Medicine, Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan.
(5)Second Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Hamamatsu University School 
of Medicine, Hamamatsu, 431-3192, Japan.
(6)Department of Allergy and Rheumatology, Nippon Medical School Graduate School 
of Medicine, 1-1-5, Sendagi, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan. 
kuwanam@nms.ac.jp.
(7)Scleroderma/Myositis Center of Excellence, Nippon Medical School Hospital, 
Tokyo, 113-8602, Japan. kuwanam@nms.ac.jp.

Anti-melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5)-positive dermatomyositis 
(DM) is often complicated by rapidly progressive interstitial lung disease 
(RP-ILD), leading to early mortality. Previous studies on the pathogenesis of 
anti-MDA5-positive DM highlighted type I interferons (IFNs), while recent 
investigations reported the significance of a type III IFN, IFN-λ3. We 
investigated a range of cytokines, including type I/II/III IFNs, in serum 
samples from anti-MDA5-positive DM patients collected at diagnosis before 
treatment introduction. Elevations of IFN-β and λ3 were identified as the 
hallmark of anti-MDA5-positive DM, in comparison with other myositis subtypes, 
systemic lupus erythematosus, and COVID-19 pneumonia. The elevation of IFN-λ3 
was associated with decreased CD56dimCD16pos NK cells in circulation. The unique 
cytokine profile with type I/III IFN upregulation in anti-MDA5-positive DM was 
replicated in independent validation cohorts. A cluster analysis using serum 
type I/III IFN levels identified three subgroups in anti-MDA5-positive DM: mild 
elevations of IFN-α/β and λ3; a marked increase in IFN-λ3 alone; and pronounced 
elevations of IFN-α/β with mild to moderate increase in IFN-λ3. Patients in the 
cluster with a marked elevation of IFN-λ3 alone tended to present with RP-ILD 
and decreased survival. The combination of serum type I/III IFN levels could 
serve as a prognostic biomarker in anti-MDA5-positive DM.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10895-1
PMID: 40664875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: T.G. has 
received speaking fees from Asahi Kasei Pharma, Astellas, Boehringer-Ingelheim, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Chugai, Eli Lily, Ono Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer, and 
Tanabe-Mitsubishi; M.K. has received royalties from MBL; speaking honoraria from 
Boehringer-Ingelheim; consulting honoraria from Argenx, AstraZeneca, 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, GSK, and Novartis; and research grants from 
Boehringer-Ingelheim and MBL. The other authors have no conflicts of interest.


34. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25608. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-06495-8.

COVID-19 susceptibility, severity, and vaccine effectiveness in patients with 
psoriasis: a nationwide cohort study in South Korea.

Cho YA(#)(1), Han H(#)(2), Won S(2)(3)(4), Lim JW(1), Sung JY(1), Kim CY(1), Yu 
DA(1)(5), Lee YW(1)(5), Choe YB(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Konkuk University School of Medicine, 120-1 
Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul, 05030, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Public Health Sciences, Seoul National University, 1 Gwanak-ro, 
Gwanak-gu, Seoul, 08826, Republic of Korea.
(3)Institute of Health and Environment, Seoul National University, 1 Gwanak-ro, 
Gwanak-gu, Seoul, 08826, Republic of Korea.
(4)RexSoft Inc, 542 Yeoksam-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 06187, Republic of Korea.
(5)Research Institute of Medical Science, Konkuk University School of Medicine, 
120-1 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul, 05030, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Dermatology, Konkuk University School of Medicine, 120-1 
Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul, 05030, Republic of Korea. cyb@kuh.ac.kr.
(7)Research Institute of Medical Science, Konkuk University School of Medicine, 
120-1 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul, 05030, Republic of Korea. cyb@kuh.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

Patients with psoriasis are vulnerable to infections due to dysregulated 
immunity, use of immunosuppressive drugs, and comorbid conditions. Despite 
ongoing concerns regarding coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vulnerability in 
patients with psoriasis, evidence remains limited. This nationwide, 
population-based, retrospective cohort study aimed to assess the risk and 
severity of COVID-19 and vaccine effectiveness in patients with psoriasis, 
including those receiving immunomodulatory therapy, using Korean National Health 
Insurance Service claims data from 2018 to 2021. The primary analysis included 
167,746 patients with psoriasis and 866,582 controls, revealing no significant 
associations between psoriasis and COVID-19 (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR]: 0.99, 
95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.95-1.04). Conversely, the secondary analysis of 
3,131 patients with psoriasis and 265,475 controls revealed significantly higher 
rates of severe COVID-19 in patients with psoriasis (aHR: 1.33, 95% CI: 
1.08-1.64). While some treatment subgroups - such as the cyclosporine and 
methotrexate subgroups - demonstrated higher incidences of COVID-19 than the 
reference (nonsystemic) subgroup, these differences were not statistically 
significant. Furthermore, vaccine interaction effects between the duration of 
immunity and psoriasis or each treatment were insignificant (all P > 0.05). 
Patients with psoriasis exhibited a higher risk of severe COVID-19; however, 
their COVID-19 susceptibility and vaccine effectiveness resembled those of the 
control group. Additionally, the use of immunomodulatory agents did not impact 
COVID-19 risk or vaccine effectiveness. These findings highlight the need for 
dermatologists to implement pre- and postinfection strategies tailored for 
patients with psoriasis.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-06495-8
PMID: 40664730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: This study was 
reviewed and approved by the Konkuk University Medical Center IRB; approval 
number: 36 #KUMC 2021-12-033. Written consent was waived since this study used 
de-identified data. Competing interests: Y.B.C. has received research grants 
from the the Konkuk University. The remaining authors have no conflict of 
interest to declare.


35. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25470. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-09904-0.

Development and validation of a RP-HPLC method for simultaneous determination of 
five COVID-19 antiviral drugs in pharmaceutical formulations.

Nassar MW(1), Serag A(2), Hasan MA(1), Kamel M(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Analytical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al- 
Azhar University, Nasr City, 11751, Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Pharmaceutical Analytical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al- 
Azhar University, Nasr City, 11751, Cairo, Egypt. Ahmedserag777@azhar.edu.eg.

A rapid, sensitive, and selective reversed-phase high-performance liquid 
chromatography (RP-HPLC) method was developed and validated for the simultaneous 
determination of five COVID-19 antiviral drugs: favipiravir, molnupiravir, 
nirmatrelvir, remdesivir, and ritonavir. The chromatographic separation was 
achieved on a Hypersil BDS C18 column (4.5 × 150 mm, 5 μm particle size) using 
an isocratic mobile phase consisting of water and methanol (30:70 v/v, pH 3.0 
adjusted with 0.1% ortho-phosphoric acid) at a flow rate of 1 mL/min with UV 
detection at 230 nm. The optimized method demonstrated good chromatographic 
resolution with retention times of 1.23, 1.79, 2.47, 2.86, and 4.34 min for 
favipiravir, molnupiravir, nirmatrelvir, remdesivir, and ritonavir, 
respectively. The method was validated according to ICH guidelines, showing 
linearity in the concentration range of 10-50 µg/mL with correlation 
coefficients (r²) ≥ 0.9997 for all analytes. The limits of detection were 
0.415-0.946 µg/mL, while the limits of quantification were 1.260-2.868 µg/mL. 
The method demonstrated high trueness (99.59-100.08%) and precision 
(RSD < 1.1%). The validated method was successfully applied to the determination 
of these drugs in their pharmaceutical formulations, with recovery values 
ranging from 99.98 to 100.7% and no significant interference from excipients. 
Comprehensive greenness and practicality evaluations using five assessment tools 
yielded favorable scores: AGREE (0.70), AGREEprep (0.59), MoGAPI (70%), BAGI 
(82.5), and CACI (79), indicating good environmental performance and excellent 
practical applicability for routine pharmaceutical quality control analysis. The 
multi-tool assessment confirmed the method's environmental friendliness through 
strategic solvent selection and minimal sample preparation requirements, while 
demonstrating superior practical implementation characteristics including 
cost-effectiveness and accessibility in standard analytical laboratories.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-09904-0
PMID: 40664729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval and consent to participate: Not 
applicable to this study. Consent for publication: Not applicable to this study.


36. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 16;15(1):25677. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10054-6.

Pleural mesothelioma incidence and use of systemic treatment decreased during 
the COVID-19 pandemic in The Netherlands.

Smesseim I(1)(2), Douma LH(3), Burgers JA(3), Damhuis RAM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. i.smesseim@nki.nl.
(2)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 
The Netherlands. i.smesseim@nki.nl.
(3)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Research and Development, Association of Comprehensive Cancer 
Centres, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Pleural mesothelioma (PM) is a lethal cancer often linked to asbestos exposure. 
The COVID-19 pandemic caused a global health crisis, raising concerns about its 
impact on cancer diagnoses and treatments. In response to the immense pressures 
on the healthcare system caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, many countries advised 
prioritizing essential healthcare services while postponing or suspending care 
considered non-emergent to prevent overburdening healthcare systems. This study 
assesses the impact of COVID-19 on the incidence, treatment, and overall 
survival of PM patients in the Netherlands between 2018 and 2022. Data were 
collected from the Netherlands Cancer Registry for 2,629 PM patients. Incidence, 
treatment patterns, and survival rates were analyzed using statistical methods, 
including Kruskal-Wallis and log-rank tests. PM incidence dropped 13.2% in 2020 
during the pandemic, with a 58.8% increase in patients receiving best supportive 
care and a decline in chemotherapy use (from 39.4% to 32.0%). In 2021, diagnoses 
rebounded (+ 15.2%), and immunotherapy use rose following its approval. However, 
no significant difference in overall survival was found between 2018 and 2022. 
COVID-19 led to a temporary decline in PM diagnoses and systemic treatments in 
2020, followed by recovery in 2021. Despite these changes, overall survival 
rates remained stable.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10054-6
PMID: 40664720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Ethical approval: This study was approved by the Ethics 
Review Committee of the Netherlands Cancer Registry, under approval number 
[K22.180_2].


37. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25486. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-11509-6.

Disinfection of medical devices with a steam machine that operates at 
atmospheric pressure and is suitable for home usage.

Wang S(1), van Dijl JM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Groningen, University 
Medical Center Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, Groningen, 9700 RB, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Groningen, University 
Medical Center Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, Groningen, 9700 RB, The Netherlands. 
j.m.van.dijl01@umcg.nl.

Medical devices that come in direct contact with human skin or the oral cavity 
will inevitably be contaminated with microorganisms, including potential 
pathogens. Ensuring the microbiological safety of such devices is therefore 
crucial to prevent infections. Healthcare institutions usually have the 
facilities needed for effective sterilization of reusable medical devices. 
However, effective sterilization or disinfection of medical devices for usage at 
home has remained challenging both in terms of pathogen elimination and user 
safety. Preferably, this involves easy-to-operate equipment that works at 
relatively low temperatures and atmospheric pressure. In principle this need can 
be met by disinfection with steam. Therefore, the objective of the present study 
was to examine the efficacy of a simple electronic steam machine designed for 
home usage. Our results show that exposure to steam at 100 °C for 60 s resulted 
in complete eradication (100% reduction) of bacterial contaminants, including 
Acinetobacter baumannii, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Significant bacterial 
reductions (ranging from ~ 90-100%) were also observed within shorter exposure 
times (10-30 s), depending on the strain. Importantly, the applied steam 
disinfection approach is effective even against biofilm-embedded bacteria, or 
bacteria applied to a medical device for home usage, as exemplified with a 
nebulizer that is used by patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD). In conclusion, our results provide quantitative proof-of-concept 
evidence that portable steam-generating devices that operate at atmospheric 
pressure can be used for effective disinfection of reusable medical devices in 
home settings.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-11509-6
PMID: 40664706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


38. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 15;16(1):6521. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61861-4.

Structural stabilization of the intrinsically disordered SARS-CoV-2 N by binding 
to RNA sequences engineered from the viral genome fragment.

Landeras-Bueno S(1)(2), Hariharan C(3), Avalos RD(3), Norris AS(#)(4), Snyder 
DT(#)(4), Hastie KM(3), Harkins S(3), Zandonatti M(3), Rajamanickam RR(3), 
Olmedillas E(3), Miller R(3), Shresta S(3), Wysocki VH(4), Saphire EO(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)La Jolla Institute for Immunology, La Jolla, CA, USA. 
sara.landeras@uchceu.es.
(2)Universidad Cardenal Herrera-CEU, CEU Universities, Valencia, Spain. 
sara.landeras@uchceu.es.
(3)La Jolla Institute for Immunology, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH, USA.
(5)La Jolla Institute for Immunology, La Jolla, CA, USA. erica@lji.org.
(6)Department of Medicine, University of California, La Jolla, CA, USA. 
erica@lji.org.
(#)Contributed equally

The nucleocapsid N is one of four structural proteins of the coronaviruses. Its 
essential role in genome encapsidation makes it a critical therapeutic target 
for COVID-19 and related diseases. However, the inherent disorder of full-length 
N hampers its structural analysis. Here, we describe a stepwise method using 
viral-derived RNAs to stabilize SARS-CoV-2 N for EM analysis. We identify pieces 
of RNA from the SARS-CoV-2 genome that promote the formation of structurally 
homogeneous N dimers, intermediates of assembly, and filamentous capsid-like 
structures. Building on these results, we engineer a symmetric RNA to stabilize 
N protein dimers, the building block of high-order assemblies, for EM studies. 
We combine domain-specific monoclonal antibodies against N with chemical 
cross-linking mass spectrometry to validate the spatial arrangement of the N 
domains within the dimer. Additionally, our cryo-EM analysis reveals novel 
antigenic sites on the N protein. Our findings provide insights into N protein´s 
architectural and antigenic principles, which can guide design of 
pan-coronavirus therapeutics.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61861-4
PMID: 40664703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


39. Sci Data. 2025 Jul 15;12(1):1227. doi: 10.1038/s41597-025-05551-2.

Multilayer networks describing urban interactions for building the digital twins 
of five cities in Spain.

Rodríguez JP(1)(2), Aleta A(3)(4), Moreno Y(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Física Interdisciplinar y Sistemas Complejos (IFISC), CSIC-UIB, 
Palma de Mallorca, Spain. jorgeprodriguezg@gmail.com.
(2)CA UNED Illes Balears, Palma, Spain. jorgeprodriguezg@gmail.com.
(3)Institute for Biocomputation and Physics of Complex Systems (BIFI), 
University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain.
(4)Department of Theoretical Physics, University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain.

Networks specifying who interacts with whom are crucial for mathematical models 
of epidemic spreading. In the context of emerging diseases, these networks have 
the potential to encode multiple interaction contexts where non-pharmaceutical 
interventions can be introduced, allowing for proper comparisons among different 
intervention strategies in a plethora of contexts. Consequently, a multilayer 
network describing interactions in a population and detailing their contexts in 
different layers constitutes an appropriate tool for such descriptions. These 
approaches however become challenging in large-scale systems such as cities, 
particularly in a framework where data protection policies are enhanced. In this 
work, we present a methodology to build such multilayer networks and make those 
corresponding to five Spanish cities available. Our work uses approaches 
informed by multiple available datasets to create realistic digital twins of the 
citizens and their interactions and provides a playground to explore different 
pandemic scenario in realistic settings for better preparedness.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41597-025-05551-2
PMID: 40664652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Authors declare no 
competing interests.


40. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 15;16(1):6514. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61613-4.

Evaluating the safety of XBB.1.5-containing COVID-19 mRNA vaccines using a 
self-controlled case series study.

Pan Y(1)(2)(3), Han Y(4), Zhou C(5), Zhao L(6), Zheng J(2), Ye X(7)(8), He 
Y(9)(10)(11); N3C Consortium.

Collaborators: Chute CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, People's Hospital of Guizhou Province, Guiyang, 
Guizhou Province, China.
(2)Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Guizhou University Medical College, Guiyang, Guizhou Province, China.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Nephrology, University of 
Michigan, Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan, Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
MI, USA.
(6)Department of Preventive Medicine (Biostatistics Division), Northwestern 
University, Evanston, IL, USA.
(7)Guizhou University Medical College, Guiyang, Guizhou Province, China. 
yxw1205@163.com.
(8)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine and NHC Key Laboratory 
of Immunological Diseases, People's Hospital of Guizhou Province, Guiyang, 
Guizhou Province, China. yxw1205@163.com.
(9)Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA. yongqunh@med.umich.edu.
(10)Department of Learning Health Sciences, University of Michigan Medical 
School, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. yongqunh@med.umich.edu.
(11)Center for Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics, University of Michigan 
Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. yongqunh@med.umich.edu.

The safety of XBB.1.5-containing COVID-19 mRNA vaccines warrants investigation. 
We assessed the relative risk of 15 adverse events following the XBB.1.5 
vaccination using a self-controlled case series study design with data from the 
National COVID Cohort Collaborative (N3C) from September 11, 2023, to June 1, 
2024 in the USA. Based on a baseline population of 244,494 patients, adverse 
events included Guillain-Barré syndrome, seizure, non-hemorrhagic stroke and 
transient ischemic attack, hemorrhagic stroke, narcolepsy or cataplexy, 
anaphylaxis, acute myocardial infarction, myo/pericarditis, coagulopathy, 
multisystem inflammatory syndrome, Bell's palsy, transverse myelitis, 
appendicitis, pulmonary embolism, and encephalitis. We found an association 
between vaccination and anaphylaxis (IRR [95% CI]: day 0-17.35 [9.32-30.03], day 
1-9.35 [5.12-15.95], day 2-6.20 [3.40-10.57], <20 patients in each risk period). 
No other outcomes showed significantly increased risk following vaccination. Our 
results contribute to the safety profile evaluation for XBB.1.5-containing 
COVID-19 mRNA vaccines utilizing N3C big data.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61613-4
PMID: 40664645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


41. Can J Surg. 2025 Jul 15;68(4):E305-E312. doi: 10.1503/cjs.010224. Print 2025 
Jul-Aug.

Association between preoperative proton pump inhibitor use and postoperative 
infectious and renal complications following major elective surgery.

Dubois L(1), McClure JA(2), Jones PM(2), Mrkobrada M(2), Flier S(2), Welk B(2), 
Vogt K(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Surgery, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ont. (Dubois, Mrkobrada, Welk, Vogt); London Health 
Sciences Centre, London, Ont. (Dubois, McClure, Jones, Mrkobrada, Flier, Welk, 
Vogt); ICES Western, London, Ont. (Dubois, Jones, Welk); the Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ont. (Dubois, Jones, Welk); the Department of 
Anesthesia & Perioperative Medicine, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ont. (Jones, Flier) luc.dubois@lhsc.on.ca.
(2)From the Department of Surgery, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ont. (Dubois, Mrkobrada, Welk, Vogt); London Health 
Sciences Centre, London, Ont. (Dubois, McClure, Jones, Mrkobrada, Flier, Welk, 
Vogt); ICES Western, London, Ont. (Dubois, Jones, Welk); the Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ont. (Dubois, Jones, Welk); the Department of 
Anesthesia & Perioperative Medicine, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ont. (Jones, Flier).

BACKGROUND: Use of poton pump inhibitors (PPIs) is associated with increased 
risk of Clostridioides difficile-associated colitis, pneumonia, and acute kidney 
injury. Their effect on postoperative complications is unknown. The objective of 
this study was to investigate the association between PPIs and the risk of C. 
difficile-associated colitis, pneumonia, and acute kidney injury following 
elective surgery.
METHODS: In this population-based, matched cohort study, we identified patients 
who had filled a PPI prescription within 90 days before major elective surgery 
(2010-2019). Study outcomes included C. difficile-associated colitis, pneumonia, 
acute kidney injury, gastrointestinal bleeding, and death within 90 days of 
surgery. We matched patients 1-to-1 on the basis of age, sex, procedure, date of 
surgery, and a propensity score predicting PPI exposure. We used logistic 
regression to evaluate between-group differences.
RESULTS: Of 313 163 patients, 89 047 (28.4%) used PPIs; of those, 79 681 were 
successfully matched to patients who did not use PPIs. The risk of the composite 
outcome (acute kidney injury, pneumonia, C. difficile-associated colitis, and 
death) among the patients who used PPIs was slightly higher than among the 
patients who did not use PPIs (10.6% v. 10.2 4%), and was driven primarily by a 
higher rate of pneumonia among those who used PPIs (4.0% v. 3.7%). There was a 
lower rate of gastrointestinal bleeding among the patients who used PPIs (1.6% 
v. 1.8%). The risk of pneumonia was most pronounced in the subgroup undergoing 
hip and knee replacement (odds ratio 1.21, 95% confidence interval 1.08-1.36; p 
= 0.001). There were no significant differences between groups with regard to 
rates of C. difficile-associated colitis or acute kidney injury.
CONCLUSION: We found that preoperative PPI use was associated with higher rates 
of pneumonia, particularly among patients undergoing hip and knee replacement 
surgery, and lower rates of gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients taking a PPI 
before surgery should be targeted for therapies aimed at reducing pneumonia 
risk, such as aggressive chest physiotherapy, following their operation.

© 2025 CMA Impact Inc. or its licensors.

DOI: 10.1503/cjs.010224
PMID: 40664466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests:: Kelly Vogt is an associate 
editor of CJS; she was not involved in the review or decision to accept this 
manuscript for publication. No other competing interests were declared.


42. BMJ Open. 2025 Jul 15;15(7):e098820. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2025-098820.

Impact of a community-based asynchronous review clinic on appointment attendance 
delays across an eye hospital network in London, UK: an interrupted time series 
analysis.

Ndwandwe S(1), Fu DJ(2), Adesanya J(3), Bazo-Alvarez JC(4)(5), Ramsay AIG(6), 
Fulop NJ(7), Magnusson J(6), Napier S(2), Cammack J(2), Baker H(2), Kumpunen 
S(6), Alarcón Garavito GA(6), Elphinstone H(6), Mills G(8), Scully P(9), Symons 
A(8), Webster P(10), Wilson J(3), Khaw PT(2), Sivaprasad S(2), Jayaram H(2), 
Foster PJ(2), Clarke CS(4); HERCULES Research Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University College 
London, London, UK s.ndwandwe@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research 
Centre (BRC) at Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and UCL Institute 
of Ophthalmology, London, UK.
(3)Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(4)Research Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University College 
London, London, UK.
(5)Escuela de Medicina, Universidad Cesar Vallejo, Trujillo, Peru.
(6)Research Department of Behavioural Science and Health, University College 
London, London, UK.
(7)Institute of Epidemiology and Health Care, University College London, London, 
UK.
(8)University College London The Bartlett School of Sustainable Construction, 
London, UK.
(9)University College London The Bartlett School of Architecture, London, UK.
(10)Ubisense Ltd, Cambridge, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of opening a large community-based asynchronous 
review ophthalmic clinic on attendance delays among patients with stable chronic 
eye disease attending a London teaching eye hospital network.
DESIGN: Interrupted time-series analysis of routine electronic health records of 
appointment attendances.
SETTING: A large eye hospital network with facilities across London, UK, between 
June 2018 and April 2023.
PARTICIPANTS: We analysed 69 257 attendances from 39 357 patients, with glaucoma 
and medical retina accounting for 62% (n=42 982) and 38% (n=26 275) of visits, 
respectively. Patients over 65 made up 54% (n=37 824) of attendances, while 53% 
(n=37 014) were from the more deprived half of the population, and 51% 
(n=35 048) were males.
INTERVENTION: An asynchronous review clinic opened in a shopping centre in 
London, in autumn 2021, following the COVID-19 lockdown in spring 2020.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Average attendance delays (days), calculated as the 
difference between follow-up attendance date and the latest clinically 
appropriate date determined at the preceding attendance.
RESULTS: Pre-COVID-19, attendance delays for chronic eye disease monitoring were 
increasing by 0.9 days per week (95% CI, 0.8 to 0.9) on average, worsening to 
2.0 days per week (95% CI, 2.0 to 2.0) after the first COVID-19 national 
lockdown, mid-March 2020. Opening the asynchronous review clinic increased 
appointment capacity, with delays decreasing on average by 8.1 days per week 
(95% CI, 8.1 to 8.2) shortly after opening. The rate of decrease slowed to 0.3 
days per week (95% CI, 0.3 to 0.3) after 5 months. We found no significant 
differences in average attendance delays by age, gender or level of deprivation.
CONCLUSION: The asynchronous review clinic significantly reduced attendance 
delays across the hospital network, addressing pre-existing backlog for stable 
chronic eye diseases. The reduction appeared to be maintained after the initial 
backlog had been cleared.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2025-098820
PMID: 40664400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: HB, JC, PJF, HJ and PTK 
acknowledge salary support from the National Institute for Health and Care 
Research (NIHR) through a grant for a Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) at 
Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and UCL Institute of Ophthalmology. 
Additionally, PJF reports personal fees from Abbvie, Allergan, AlphaSights, Carl 
Zeiss, DeepMind, Google Health, GLG, Guidepoint, PwC and Santen, as well as a 
grant from Alcon, all outside the submitted work. HJ has consulted for Allergan, 
Ivantis, Scope Ophthalmics and Rebio; received honoraria for lectures and 
educational events from Allergan, Laboratoires Théa, and Santen; received 
support to attend meetings from Allergan; participated on an Advisory Board for 
Allergan. SS reports receiving research grants from Novartis, Bayer, Allergan, 
Roche, Boehringer, Ingelheim and Optos plc, travel grants from Novartis, Bayer, 
speaker fees from Novartis, Bayer and Optos plc, and attending advisory board 
meetings for Novartis, Bayer, Allergan, Roche, Boehringer, Ingelheim, Optos plc, 
Apellis, Oculis and Eyebiotech. Sir Peng T Khaw is also supported by the Helen 
Hamlyn Trust, the Nolan Family, the Katz Foundation and reports consulting and 
lecturing at Aerie Pharmaceuticals and consulting for Novartis, Thea, Glaukos, 
Santen, Genentech, CMER Hospital Group, Hong Kong Alcon, ISA RNA Therapeutics 
GmbH; he is also on the Advisory Board of Novartis, DrugTech, Santen, CRICK 
Institute Translational Advisory Group, and Decisions on health Care to 
Introduce or Diffuse innovations using Evidence (DECIDE). NJF is an NIHR Senior 
Investigator. SN and CSC hold honorary research contracts from Moorfields Eye 
Hospital to perform this work. PW reports receiving support from Ubisense 
Limited in the form of equipment used for tracking participants as part of the 
HERCULES project. This equipment was loaned at a subsidised rate, primarily 
covering initial installation and customisation costs. AIGR is a trustee at 
Health Services Research UK. NJF is an NIHR Senior Investigator and 
Non-Executive Director at Covid-19 Bereaved Families for Justice UK. She was a 
Non-Executive Director at Whittington Health NHS Trust until October 2024 and a 
trustee at Health Services Research UK until 2022; she was a member of the UKRI 
and NIHR College of Experts for Covid-19 Research Funding (2020), the NIHR 
Health Services and Delivery Research (HS&DR) Programme Funding Committee 
(2013-2018), and the HS&DR Evidence Synthesis Sub Board (2016). NJF and AIGR are 
supported by the NIHR Central London Patient Safety Research Collaboration. All 
other authors have no competing interests to declare.


43. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2025 Jul 15:tpmd250191. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.25-0191. Online
 ahead of print.

Clinical Characteristics of Pediatric Pleuropulmonary Paragonimiasis with 
Pleural Effusion: A Single-Center Retrospective Analysis.

Gao Y(1), Tang L(2), Rao L(1), Chen Z(3), Shi L(4), Zhang C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Public Health Clinical Center of Chengdu, Chengdu, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Smart Healthcare Industry, Chongqing City Management College, 
Chongqing, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Chengdu Women's and Children's Central Hospital, 
Chengdu, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Shanxi Children's Hospital, Taiyuan, People's 
Republic of China.

Paragonimiasis, a cause of pleuropulmonary disease, is a neglected etiology of 
pediatric pleural effusion. We retrospectively analyzed children with 
paragonimiasis-induced pleural effusion admitted to our center, aiming to 
summarize their diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis. A total of 103 children 
were included, with a mean age of 8.2 years, and 87.4% resided in rural areas. 
81/91 (89.0%) were initially misdiagnosed with other infectious diseases 
including community-acquired pneumonia (43.9%; 40/91) and tuberculosis (16.5%; 
15/91). The predominant blood test findings included hypereosinophilia (98.1%), 
leukocytosis (95.1%), thrombocytosis (42.7%), hyperglobulinemia (78.6%), and 
elevated immunoglobulin G levels (85.4%; 76/89). Multiple serous cavity 
effusions exhibited higher globulin levels (44.7 g/L versus 36.7 g/L) and lower 
albumin-globulin ratios (0.8 versus 1.0) than single pleural effusions, and 
loculation was more common in medium or large pleural effusions. After 3 days of 
praziquantel treatment at a dosage of 75-90 mg/(kg·day), with a median of four 
courses, all of the children improved, but no patients were cured with a single 
course of therapy. Almost half of the patients (44/99) continued to exhibit 
medium or small residual effusion on chest computed tomography scans. 
Additionally, various types of lung lesions remained, and the incidence of 
pleural lesions increased during the follow-up period. Unexplained pediatric 
pleural effusion with eosinophilia requires paragonimiasis evaluation. Early 
diagnosis and accurate treatment critically improve clinical prognosis, whereas 
post-paragonimiasis pulmonary injuries necessitate clinical attention.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.25-0191
PMID: 40664180


44. J Environ Manage. 2025 Jul 14;391:126533. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2025.126533.
 Online ahead of print.

Critical exposure windows of PM2.5-Meteorological interactions triggering 
pediatric mycoplasma pneumoniae epidemics: An age-stratified distributed lag 
nonlinear modeling approach.

Wang F(1), Huang W(1), Shi F(2), Li Y(3), Li Y(4), Zhang Q(4), Shang Y(1), Chen 
N(1), Xu W(5), Cheng Q(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, 110000, China.
(2)Department of Health Management, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, Liaoning, 110000, China.
(3)Institute of Atmospheric Environment, China Meteorological Administration, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, 110166, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical 
University, Liaoning Clinical Research Center for Laboratory Medicine, Shenyang, 
Liaoning, 110000, China.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, 110000, China. Electronic address: tomxu.123@163.com.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, 110000, China. Electronic address: qcheng@cmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The rising prevalence of Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection (MPI) in 
children, a leading cause of severe pneumonia and mortality, highlights the need 
to clarify impacts of air pollution and meteorological factors.
METHODS: This study analyzed associations of PM2.5, temperature, and humidity 
with outpatient MPI, inpatient MPP, and severe MPP (SMPP). Data on 391,559 
children from 15 Northeast China hospitals (2017-2023) were analyzed using a 
distributed lag nonlinear model, with sensitivity analysis after 2020 (COVID-19 
onset).
RESULTS: PM2.5 (60-100 μg/m3) showed nonlinear associations with outpatient MPI 
(7-15-day lag, RR = 2.28 at 100 μg/m3, 10-day lag), especially in preschoolers. 
Temperature correlated positively with outpatient MPI (peaks at 20 °C/30 °C, 
7-10-day lag; RR = 1.82 at 30 °C, 10-day lag), with high temperatures increasing 
female MPP/SMPP risk. Humidity had a U-shaped association with outpatient MPI 
(20 %/100 % humidity increased risk 2.75/2.18-fold at 15-day lag), with high 
humidity elevating female/school-age SMPP risk (RR = 5.32). Trends were 
consistent pre/post-COVID-19.
CONCLUSION: High PM2.5, high temperature, and extreme humidity correlate with 
increased childhood MPI cases and severity, emphasizing targeted strategies for 
extreme conditions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2025.126533
PMID: 40663891

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


45. Injury. 2025 Jul 9;56(8):112595. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2025.112595. Online
ahead  of print.

Implementation of an automated, real-time mortality prediction tool in trauma 
patients: Can it do more than just predict mortality?

Gopal K(1), Diercks K(1), Cheng M(1), Bain A(1), Hirschkorn C(2), Franklin A(3), 
Chowdhry V(2), Sanders D(3), Starr A(3), Park C(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Department of Surgery, 
Dallas, TX, USA.
(2)Parkland Memorial Hospital, Dallas, TX, USA.
(3)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Department of Orthopedic 
Surgery, Dallas, TX, USA.
(4)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Department of Surgery, 
Dallas, TX, USA. Electronic address: caroline.park@utsouthwestern.edu.

INTRODUCTION: The Parkland Trauma Index of Mortality (PTIM) is a validated 
machine learning tool for real-time prediction of 48-hour mortality in trauma 
patients.
METHODS: This retrospective study at a Level I Trauma center analyzed PTIM 
scores and their association with clinical outcomes in 171 patients from 
December 2020 to August 2021. A PTIM score of 1.0 predicts 100 % mortality.
RESULTS: We included a total of 171 patients, with a mean PTIM score of 0.26 
[median = 0.1825, range =0.89, IQR=0.37]. For every 0.1 increase in PTIM score, 
ICU days increased by 0.966 days, ventilator days increased by 0.724 days, 
hospital stay increased by 1.668 days, and blood transfusion needs increased by 
0.37 units. An increase in PTIM score was also associated with higher odds of 
shock, pneumonia, and mortality. PTIM did not significantly impact time to the 
operating room.
CONCLUSION: These findings demonstrate PTIM's utility in anticipating resource 
utilization and patient outcomes. Future research aims to validate PTIM 
externally and explore additional applications for this real-time prediction 
model.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2025.112595
PMID: 40663873

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Caroline Park, Adam Starr, Vikas 
Chowdhry reports a relationship with TraumaCare.AI that includes: consulting or 
advisory. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


46. Shock. 2025 Jun 26. doi: 10.1097/SHK.0000000000002656. Online ahead of print.

The Value of Heparin-Binding Protein (HBP) in Predicting Early Pneumonia in 
Neurosurgical Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Patients.

Li Q(1), Qi L(2), Geng X(3), Ji H(4), Feng L(1), Wu D(1), Wu H(1), Li Z(1), Ding 
X(1), Ji L(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Shanxi Bethune Hospital, Shanxi Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Tongji Shanxi Hospital, Third Hospital of Shanxi Medical 
University, Taiyuan, 030032, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation, The Second Hospital, Cheeloo College of 
Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan, 250033, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to 
Shandong First Medical University, Shandong Provincial Hospital, Jinan, 250021, 
China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Shanxi Provincial People's Hospital, Taiyuan, 
030012, China.

BACKGROUND: The high incidence of pneumonia in neurosurgical intensive care unit 
(NICU) patients significantly impacts their prognosis. Early identification of 
high-risk individuals for pneumonia is crucial for timely intervention and 
personalized treatment. Heparin-binding protein (HBP), an early inflammatory 
marker, shows promise as a predictor for early-onset pneumonia.
METHODS: This study enrolled a prospective cohort of 389 NICU patients. Logistic 
regression analysis was used to identify risk factors for early pneumonia while 
accounting for the potential confounding effects of other variables on HBP. 
Restricted cubic splines (RCS) were employed to explore the potential non-linear 
relationship between HBP and the risk of early pneumonia. Subgroup analyses were 
conducted to evaluate the sensitivity of HBP as a risk factor. A nomogram 
integrating HBP and four other independent risk factors was developed to predict 
early pneumonia. The performance of the model was assessed using receiver 
operating characteristic (ROC) curves, calibration plots, and decision curve 
analysis (DCA).
RESULTS: A total of 300 NICU patients were included, among whom 201 developed 
early pneumonia. Multivariate logistic regression confirmed HBP as an 
independent risk factor for early pneumonia, with consistent results across all 
subgroups. The nomogram demonstrated excellent predictive performance, achieving 
high discrimination (AUC = 0.89) and calibration (Hosmer-Lemeshow test, P = 
0.520). Additionally, the model showed significant clinical utility.
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated HBP levels are independently associated with the risk of 
early pneumonia in NICU patients. The nomogram integrating HBP provides accurate 
predictions for early pneumonia.

Copyright © 2025 by the Shock Society.

DOI: 10.1097/SHK.0000000000002656
PMID: 40663510

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


47. Microb Genom. 2025 Jul;11(7). doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.001435.

Genomic epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 in Norfolk, UK, March 2020-December 2022.

Hayles EH(1)(2)(3), Page AJ(1)(4), Kingsley RA(1)(3)(5), Guitian J(6), The 
Covid-Genomics Uk Consortium, Langridge GC(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Quadram Institute Bioscience, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, UK.
(2)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research Park, 
Norwich, UK.
(3)Centre for Microbial Interactions, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, UK.
(4)Theiagen Genomics, 1745 Shea Center Drive, Highlands Ranch, Co, USA.
(5)School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research 
Park, Norwich, UK.
(6)Department of Pathobiology and Population Sciences, The Royal Veterinary 
College, London, UK.

In the UK, the COVID-19 Genomics UK Consortium (COG-UK) established a real-time 
national genomic surveillance system during the COVID-19 pandemic, producing 
centralized data for monitoring severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
(SARS-CoV-2). As a COG-UK partner, Quadram Institute Bioscience in Norfolk 
sequenced over 87,000 SARS-CoV-2 genomes as part of the national effort, 
contributing to the region becoming densely sequenced. Retrospective analysis of 
SARS-CoV-2 lineage dynamics in this region may contribute to preparedness for 
future pandemics. In total, 29,406 SARS-CoV-2 whole genome sequences and 
corresponding metadata from Norfolk were extracted from the COG-UK dataset, 
sampled between March 2020 and December 2022, representing 9.9% of regional 
COVID-19 cases. Sequences were lineage typed using Pangolin, with subsequent 
lineage analysis carried out in R using RStudio and related packages, including 
graphical analysis using ggplot2. In total, 401 global lineages were identified, 
with 69.8% appearing more than once and 31.2% over ten times. Temporal 
clustering identified six lineage communities based on first lineage emergence. 
Alpha, Delta and Omicron variants of concern (VOCs) accounted for 8.6, 34.9 and 
48.5% of sequences, respectively. These formed four regional epidemic waves 
alongside the remaining lineages which were observed in the early pandemic prior 
to VOC designation and were termed 'pre-VOC' lineages. Regional comparison 
highlighted variability in VOC epidemic wave dates dependent on location. This 
study is the first to assess SARS-CoV-2 diversity in Norfolk across a large 
timescale within the COVID-19 pandemic. SARS-CoV-2 was both highly diverse and 
dynamic throughout the Norfolk region between March 2020 and December 2022, with 
a strong VOC presence within the latter two-thirds of the study period. The 
study also displays the utility of incorporating genomic epidemiological methods 
into pandemic response.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.001435
PMID: 40663468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Microb Genom. 2025 Jul;11(7):001451. doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.001451.

'Vivaldi': an amplicon-based whole-genome sequencing method for the four 
seasonal human coronaviruses, 229E, NL63, OC43 and HKU1, alongside SARS-CoV-2.

McClure CP(1)(2)(3), Tsoleridis T(1)(2)(4), Hill JD(1)(2), Holmes N(2)(5), 
Chappell JG(1)(2), Byaruhanga T(1)(2), Duncan J(1)(2), Tofan M(2), Berry L(6), 
Clark G(6), Irving WL(1)(2)(3)(6), Tarr AW(1)(2)(3), Ball JK(1)(2)(3)(7), 
Astbury S(3)(8), Loose M(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Wolfson Centre for Global Virus Research, University of Nottingham, 
Nottingham, UK.
(2)School of Life Sciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(3)National Institute for Health Research Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre, 
University of Nottingham and Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, 
Nottingham, UK.
(4)The Pirbright Institute, Ash Road, Pirbright, Woking, UK.
(5)Deep Seq, School of Life Sciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(6)Clinical Microbiology, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham, 
UK.
(7)Dept of Tropical Disease Biology, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, 
Liverpool, UK.
(8)Nottingham Digestive Diseases Centre, Translational Medical Sciences, School 
of Medicine, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.

Prior to the emergence of SARS-CoV-2 in 2019, alphacoronaviruses 229E and NL63 
and betacoronaviruses OC43 and HKU1 were already established endemic 'common 
cold' viral infections. Despite their collective contribution towards global 
respiratory morbidity and mortality and potential to inform the future 
trajectory of SARS-CoV-2 endemicity, they are infrequently sequenced. We 
therefore developed a 1,200 bp amplicon whole-genome sequencing scheme targeting 
all four seasonal coronaviruses and SARS-CoV-2. The 'Vivaldi' method was applied 
retrospectively and prospectively using Oxford Nanopore Technology to ~400 
seasonal coronavirus infections diagnosed in Nottingham, UK, from February 2016 
to July 2023. We demonstrate that the amplicon multiplex strategy can be applied 
agnostically to determine the complete genomes of five different species from 
two coronaviral genera. Three hundred and four unique seasonal coronavirus 
genomes of greater than 95% coverage were achieved: 64 for 229E, 85 for NL63, 
128 for OC43 and 27 for HKU1. They collectively indicated a dynamic seasonal 
coronavirus genomic landscape, with co-circulation of multiple variants emerging 
and declining over the UK winter respiratory infection season, with further 
geographical distinction when compared to a global dataset. Prolonged infection 
with concomitant intra-host evolution was also observed for both alpha- (NL63) 
and betacoronaviruses (OC43). This data represents the largest single cohort of 
seasonal coronavirus genomes to date and also a novel amplicon scheme for their 
future global surveillance suitable for widespread and easy adoption in the 
post-SARS-CoV-2 era of viral genomics.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.001451
PMCID: PMC12263288
PMID: 40663464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


49. Ceska Gynekol. 2025;90(3):189-193. doi: 10.48095/cccg2025189.

Analysing risk factors for foetal growth outcomes - the influence of maternal 
conditions and congenital cytomegalovirus infection.

[Article in English]

Mandžáková M, Záhumenský J, Vajdová E, Matušíková Z, Rosoľanková M, Papcun P.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to analyse the risk factors differentiating small 
for gestational age (SGA) and appropriate for gestational age (AGA) neonates.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective-prospective cohort study was conducted 
from 2019 to 2024 at the 2nd Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 
University Hospital Bratislava. The study involved 174 term neonates from 
singleton pregnancies, including 125 SGA and 49 AGA infants. Various maternal, 
foetal, and placental risk factors were analysed, with a particular focus on 
congenital cytomegalovirus infection (cCMV).
RESULTS: Neonates' birth weights ranged from 1,480 to 4,470 grams. Of the risk 
factors assessed, only maternal COVID-19 infection during pregnancy was 
significantly associated with AGA outcomes (P = 0.009). No significant 
associations were found between common risk factors (e. g. hypertension, 
diabetes mellitus) and foetal growth restriction. Congenital CMV infection was 
not significantly associated with SGA. Logistic regression analysis confirmed 
the association of COVID-19 infection with foetal weight, while no significant 
effect was observed for CMV.
CONCLUSION: Maternal COVID-19 infection was associated with AGA outcomes, 
potentially due to enhanced medical surveillance and immune responses. However, 
the study's small sample size limits the interpretation of these findings, and 
further research is required to fully understand the impacts of COVID-19 on 
pregnancy. No significant association between congenital CMV infection and 
foetal growth restriction was found in this cohort, which was most likely due to 
the low prevalence of cCMV. Moreover, documented risk factors for foetal growth 
restriction, including hypertension and diabetes mellitus, were not 
statistically significant in our study population.

DOI: 10.48095/cccg2025189
PMID: 40663445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Jul 1;8(7):e2521009. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.21009.

Pediatric COVID-19 Hospitalization Trends by Race and Ethnicity, 2020-2023.

Anglin O(1), Patel K(1), Daily Kirley P(2), Sachdev D(3), Alden NB(4), Armistead 
I(4), Yousey-Hindes K(5), Meek J(5), Witt LS(6)(7), Openo KP(6)(7)(8), Monroe 
ML(9), Kim S(10), Urlaub E(10), Como-Sabetti K(11), D'Heilly P(11), Ropp SL(12), 
Eisenberg N(13), Rowlands JV(14), Barney G(14), Bushey S(15), St George K(15), 
Sutton M(16), Abdullah N(16), Schaffner W(17), Talbot HK(17), Chatelain R(18), 
Price A(18), King H(1), Taylor CA(1), Patton ME(1)(19), Havers FP(1)(19).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia.
(2)California Emerging Infections Program, Oakland.
(3)California Department of Public Health, Richmond.
(4)Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment, Denver.
(5)Connecticut Emerging Infections Program, Yale School of Public Health, New 
Haven.
(6)Division of Infectious Diseases, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, Georgia.
(7)Georgia Emerging Infections Program, Georgia Department of Public Health, 
Atlanta.
(8)Research, Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, Georgia.
(9)Maryland Department of Health, Baltimore.
(10)Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, Lansing.
(11)Minnesota Department of Health, St Paul.
(12)New Mexico Department of Health, Santa Fe.
(13)University of New Mexico Emerging Infections Program, Albuquerque.
(14)New York State Department of Health, Albany.
(15)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, New 
York.
(16)Public Health Division, Oregon Health Authority, Portland.
(17)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(18)Salt Lake County Health Department, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(19)United States Public Health Service, Rockville, Maryland.

IMPORTANCE: Examining racial and ethnic disparities in pediatric COVID-19 
hospitalizations is critical to inform public health efforts to reduce those 
disparities.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize trends in pediatric COVID-19 hospitalizations by race 
and ethnicity from March 2020 to September 2023, focusing on recent 
epidemiologic findings (October 2022 to September 2023).
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cross-sectional study used data from the 
COVID-19 Hospitalization Surveillance Network (COVID-NET) including 13 555 
hospitalizations among patients aged 17 years or younger with a 
laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection who are residents of the COVID-NET 
catchment area in 12 states, covering approximately 10% of the US population.
EXPOSURE: Laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection within 14 days prior to or 
during hospitalization.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Pediatric COVID-19-associated hospitalization rates 
by race and ethnicity and characteristics associated with COVID-19-associated 
hospitalizations.
RESULTS: Between March 2020 and September 2023, COVID-NET identified 13 555 
pediatric hospitalizations (median patient age, 3.3 years [IQR, 0.6-12.5 years]; 
7110 boys [52.5%]; 780 non-Hispanic Asian or Pacific Islander children [5.8%], 
3837 non-Hispanic Black children [28.3%], 4131 Hispanic children [30.5%], and 
4807 non-Hispanic White children [35.5%]). Hospitalization rates were 2.15 (95% 
CI, 2.01-2.34) times higher for Black children and 2.06 (95% CI, 1.91-2.23) 
times higher for Hispanic children compared with Asian or Pacific Islander 
children, who had the lowest rates. Despite overall decreased pediatric 
hospitalization rates between October 2022 and September 2023, higher rates of 
intensive care unit admissions among Black and Hispanic children persisted, at 
1.88 (95% CI, 1.28-2.74) times higher for Black children and 2.13 (95% CI, 
1.47-3.10) times higher for Hispanic children compared with Asian or Pacific 
Islander children. Among hospitalized children, 61.4% (95% CI, 57.0%-65.8%) of 
Black patients and 45.5% (95% CI, 41.9%-49.3%) of Hispanic patients had 1 or 
more underlying medical condition compared with 45.6% (95% CI, 42.1%-49.1%) of 
White children and 45.0% (95% CI, 41.9%-49.3%) of Asian or Pacific Islander 
children. Obesity (17.8%; 95% CI, 15.3%-20.5%) and neurologic disorders (15.2%; 
95% CI, 13.7%-16.8%) were the most common conditions overall; 11.9% (95% CI, 
9.1%-15.1%) of Black children had sickle cell disease, the fourth most common 
condition in this group.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This study found that among pediatric patients 
hospitalized with COVID-19, Black and Hispanic children were disproportionately 
more likely to be hospitalized for COVID-19 and experience severe disease 
compared with White and Asian or Pacific Islander children. A higher proportion 
of hospitalized Black children had underlying medical conditions. This study 
underlines the need for targeted interventions, particularly for children with 
underlying medical conditions, and the need for equitable access and use of 
vaccines and therapeutics for disproportionately affected populations.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.21009
PMID: 40663351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Crit Care Explor. 2025 Jul 15;7(7):e1289. doi: 10.1097/CCE.0000000000001289. 
eCollection 2025 Jul 1.

Epidemiology of Community-Acquired Versus Hospital-Acquired Sepsis in Acute 
Hospitals in Ireland, 2016-2022.

Liddy EM(1), Amin DK(2), McKeown DJ(3), O'Dwyer MJ(4), Vellinga A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Health Service Executive Dublin & South East and 
School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Sports Science, University College 
Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)CARA Network, School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Sports Science, 
University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(3)National Health Intelligence Unit, Health Service Executive, Dublin, Ireland.
(4)Department of Anaesthesia and Critical Care, St Vincent's University 
Hospital, Dublin and Clinical Lead, National Clinical Programme in Sepsis, 
Health Service Executive, Dublin, Ireland.

IMPORTANCE: Sepsis is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality. Understanding 
sepsis epidemiology is crucial to enable clinicians to identify patients at 
highest risk of developing and dying from sepsis.
OBJECTIVES: While community-acquired (CA) sepsis has been identified as more 
common than hospital-acquired (HA) sepsis, HA sepsis has led to increased 
morbidity and mortality. Few studies, however, have analyzed CA and HA sepsis by 
site of infection or by patient comorbidities. The aim of this analysis was to 
describe the epidemiology of patients with CA and HA sepsis diagnosed in 
Ireland.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This was a retrospective cohort study. The 
setting was all Irish acute public hospitals from 2016 to 2022. Data were 
extracted from the Hospital In-Patient Enquiry (HIPE) system recording all 
discharges from acute public hospitals, if a sepsis-related diagnostic code was 
included.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Univariate and multivariate analysis was conducted 
to compare CA and HA sepsis events and their association with sepsis-associated 
mortality.
RESULTS: The number of CA vs. HA sepsis events in the database was 86,011 
(85.2%) vs. 14,930 (14.8%). HA sepsis patients were 1.5 times more likely to die 
in hospital compared with CA. Of diagnoses analyzed, severe acute respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was identified as the strongest risk factor 
predictive of mortality (odds ratio [OR] = 2.4) followed by cardiac disease (OR, 
1.9) and influenza or pneumonia (OR, 1.9). Sepsis patients with a lower 
socioeconomic status had a 20% higher likelihood of death.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This analysis highlighted a significant increased 
risk of sepsis-associated mortality for patients diagnosed with sepsis as a 
result of a HA infection and key infection types and comorbidities including 
SARS-CoV-2, influenza or pneumonia, cancer, and cardiac disease.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf 
of the Society of Critical Care Medicine.

DOI: 10.1097/CCE.0000000000001289
PMID: 40663158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have disclosed that they do not have 
any potential conflicts of interest.


52. Intensive Care Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s00134-025-08014-9. Online
ahead  of print.

Combined use of a multiplex PCR and serum procalcitonin to reduce antibiotic 
exposure in critically ill patients with community-acquired pneumonia: the 
MULTI-CAP randomized controlled trial.

Voiriot G(1), Argaud L(2), Cohen Y(#)(3), Tuffet S(#)(4), Chauvelot L(5), 
Souweine B(6), Klouche K(7), Reignier J(8), Schwebel C(9), Rouzé A(10), Mekontso 
Dessap A(11), Bohé J(12), Megarbane B(13), Carvelli J(14), Navellou JC(15), 
Gibot S(16), Maury É(17), Dellamonica J(18), Dequin PF(19), Dessajan J(20), 
Armand-Lefèvre L(21), Vandenesch F(22)(23), Verdet C(24), Durand Zaleski I(25), 
Bérard L(4), Rousseau A(4), Tabassome S(4), Fartoukh M(#)(26), Timsit JF(#)(27); 
MULTI-CAP collaborative trial group.

Collaborators: Siaha BFN, Turpin M, Gibelin A, de Montmollin N, Desnos C, 
Bouadma L, de Montmollin E, Doman M, Thy M, Sonneville R, Lamara F, Eczenberg M, 
Courte G, Piton G, Jeannot K, Cour M, Provent M, Gainnier M, Dauwalder O, 
Richard JC, Jacquier H, Cambau E, Baudel JL, Tankovic J, Wallet F, Nseir S, 
Jauréguy F, Wallet F.

Author information:
(1)Sorbonne Université, Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Service de 
Médecine Intensive Réanimation, Hôpital Tenon, GRC SoLID, INSERM Centre de 
Recherche Saint-Antoine UMRS_938 Team 5PMed, Paris, France. 
guillaume.voiriot@aphp.fr.
(2)Service de Médecine Intensive-Réanimation, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, Hospices 
Civils de Lyon, Lyon, France.
(3)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Service de Réanimation 
Médico-Chirurgicale, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris-Seine-Saint-Denis, Bobigny, 
France.
(4)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Unité de Recherche Clinique de l'Est 
Parisien, Sorbonne Université, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, Paris, France.
(5)Service de Médecine Intensive Réanimation, Hôpital de la Croix-Rousse, 
Hospices Civils de Lyon, Lyon, France.
(6)Service de Médecine Intensive Et Réanimation, Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire Gabriel Montpied, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(7)Intensive Care Medicine Department, Lapeyronie University Hospital, 
Montpellier, France.
(8)Service de Médecine Intensive Réanimation, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire 
de Nantes, Nantes, France.
(9)Service de Médecine Intensive Réanimation, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire 
Grenoble-Alpes, INSERM U1039, La Tronche, France.
(10)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Lille, U1285-UMR 8576-UGSF-Unité de 
Glycobiologie Structurale et Fonctionnelle, Service de Médecine Intensive 
Réanimation, Université de Lille, CNRS, INSERM, Lille, France.
(11)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Service de Médecine Intensive 
Réanimation, Université Paris Est CréteilHôpitaux Universitaires Henri-Mondor, 
Hôpital Henri MondorCARMAS, Créteil, France.
(12)Service d'Anesthésie Réanimation Médecine Intensive, Centre Hospitalier 
Lyon-Sud, Hospices Civils de Lyo, n, Pierre Bénite, France.
(13)Department of Medical and Toxicological Critical Care, Lariboisière 
Hospital, Université Paris Cité, INSERM UMRS-1144, Paris, France.
(14)Service de Médecine Intensive Réanimation, Hôpital Timone, Assistance 
Publique- Hôpitaux de Marseille, C2VN-Aix Marseille Université, Marseille, 
France.
(15)Service de Médecine Intensive Réanimation, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire 
de Besançon, Besançon, France.
(16)Service de Médecine Intensive Réanimation, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire 
de Nancy, Hôpital Central, Nancy, France.
(17)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, Médecine 
Intensive et Réanimation, Sorbonne Université, Paris, France.
(18)Service de Médecine Intensive et Réanimation, Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire de Nice, UR2CA -Unité de Recherche Clinique Côte d'Azur, 
Université Côte d'Azur, Nice, France.
(19)Intensive Care Unit, Research Center for Respiratory Diseases, Tours 
University Hospital, INSERM U1100, University of Tours, Tours, France.
(20)Service de Médecine Intensive Réanimtion Infectieuse, Assistance Publique - 
Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Bichat, Paris, France.
(21)Service de Bactériologie, UMR 1137, Université Paris Cité, Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Bichat, IAME INSERM, Paris, France.
(22)Institut Des Agents Infectieux, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Lyon, France.
(23)Inserm U1111, CIRI, Université de Lyon, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, 
CNRS UMR5308, ENS de Lyon, Lyon, France.
(24)Service de Bactériologie-Hygiène, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, GHU AP-HP, Sorbonne 
Université, AP-HP, Paris, France.
(25)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, URCeco Santé Publique, CRESS 
METHODS-UMR1153-INSERM, Université Paris est Créteil, Paris, France.
(26)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Service de Médecine Intensive 
Réanimation, Sorbonne Université, Hopital Tenon, GRC CARMAS, Paris, France.
(27)Service de Médecine Intensive Réanimation Infectieuse, UMR 1137-IAME Team 
5-DeSCID: Decision Sciences in Infectious Diseases Control and Care, Université 
Paris Cité, Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Bichat, INSERM, 
Paris, France.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: Multiplex polymerase chain reaction (mPCR) testing has the potential to 
rapidly and accurately identify causative microorganisms in patients with 
community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Its use in a management strategy, along with 
biomarkers, may reduce antibiotic exposure and improve clinical outcomes.
METHODS: The MULTI-CAP trial was a multicenter (n = 20), parallel-group, 
superiority, open-label, randomized trial. Subjects were non-immunocompromised 
adult patients (≥ 18 years) admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for CAP 
and randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio. In the intervention group, the 
microbiological diagnosis combined a broad-spectrum respiratory mPCR and 
conventional microbiological investigations. An algorithm for early 
discontinuation or de-escalation of antibiotics was applied, based on mPCR 
results and serum procalcitonin. In the control group, only conventional 
microbiological investigations were performed. In both groups, antibiotic 
discontinuation was considered on Day 3 and day after day until Day 7, based on 
procalcitonin values and kinetics. The primary endpoint was defined as the 
number of days alive without any antibiotic from the time of enrollment to Day 
28.
RESULTS: From October 4, 2018, to March 3, 2022, 406 patients were randomized, 
and 385 were evaluable in the intention-to-treat analysis. The median number of 
days alive without antibiotics on Day 28 was 19.0 (0.0; 24.0) days in the 
intervention group and 19.0 (7.0; 22.0) days in the control group (difference, 
0.0 (95% CI, - 4.0 to 4.0). However, the antibiotic cumulative duration on day 
28 was 3 days shorter (95% CI, - 5.1 to - 0.9) in the intervention group. 
Serious adverse events did not differ between groups.
CONCLUSION: In ICU patients with CAP, a management strategy combining a mPCR and 
serum procalcitonin failed to reduce antibiotic exposure or improve outcomes on 
Day 28, compared to usual care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03452826 (March 2018), EudraCT 2017-A01615-48.

© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00134-025-08014-9
PMID: 40663137

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: Laurence 
Armand-Lefèvre received consulting fees from Shionogi and Viatris, and honoraria 
for lectures from Advanz, Shionogi and Pfizer. In addition, she performed unpaid 
lectures for BioMérieux and Qiagen. Julien Dessajan received honoraria for 
lectures from BioMérieux. Isabelle Durand-Zaleski received consulting fees from 
Bristol Myers Squibb, MSD, Sanofi, Pfizer and Roche. Muriel Fartoukh reported 
research grants from BioMérieux and personal fees from BioMérieux, Pfizer, SOS 
Oxygene and Fisher and Paykel. Tabassome Simon reported support for research 
from BioMérieux, research grants from Astra Zeneca, Bayer, Boehringer, Daiichi 
Sankyo, Ili-Lilly, GSK, Novartis and Sanofi, and honoraria for lectures from 
Servier and Novartis. In addition, she reported participation in Data Safety 
Monitoring Board for Ablative Solutions, Air Liquide, Astra Zeneca, Sanofi, 
Novartis and 4Living Biotech. Jean-Francois Timsit Simon reported support for 
research from BioMérieux, and consulting fees from Advanz, Menarini, Pfizer and 
Merck. In addition, he reported honoraria for lectures from BioMérieux, 
MundiPharma and Merck. Guillaume Voiriot reported research grants from 
BioMérieux and SOS Oxygene, and support for attending meetings from Oxyvie. 
Francois Vandenesch reported been founder and shareholder of Weezion.


53. Arch Microbiol. 2025 Jul 15;207(9):196. doi: 10.1007/s00203-025-04395-z.

Metabolic and fermentation engineering of Klebsiella Pneumoniae for high-level 
production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid.

Cao QY(1), Xu HY(1), Ye BC(2), Zhou Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biosystems and Microanalysis, State Key Laboratory of 
Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China.
(2)Laboratory of Biosystems and Microanalysis, State Key Laboratory of 
Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China. bcye@ecust.edu.cn.
(3)Laboratory of Biosystems and Microanalysis, State Key Laboratory of 
Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China. zhouying@ecust.edu.cn.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-025-04395-z
PMID: 40663134

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


54. South Med J. 2025 Jul;118(7):389-393. doi: 10.14423/SMJ.0000000000001845.

Access and Use of Green and Blue Spaces for Memory and Physical Health.

Wolf JK(1), Cossman JS(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Sociology and Demography, College for Health, 
Community and Policy, University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio.

OBJECTIVES: The coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic exacerbated mental and 
physical health issues in the United States. Due to various lockdown procedures 
to curb the spread of the virus, indoor gatherings were severely restricted, 
intensifying stress and anxiety.
METHODS: We used nationally representative data from the 2021 Crime, Health, and 
Politics Survey sampled from the National Opinion Research Center's AmeriSpeak 
panel. To explore pandemic-safe options to relieve negative health outcomes, we 
studied how access to and use of green and blue spaces were related to 
self-rated physical and mental health (ie, memory) during the pandemic.
RESULTS: Most of the logistic regressions show no relationships between access 
to green or blue spaces and the health outcomes (except for access to blue 
spaces and physical health), but we find positive associations between use of 
green and blue spaces with overall physical health and memory.
CONCLUSIONS: Access to green or blue spaces is not necessarily enough to create 
a relationship with overall physical health and memory-actually using these 
areas is a key component to their association with positive health outcomes.

DOI: 10.14423/SMJ.0000000000001845
PMID: 40663126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Clin Lab. 2025 Jul 1;71(7). doi: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2025.241253.

Overlooked Pneumonia-Like Lung Cancer with Elevated Neutrophils and Typical 
Pneumonia Imaging findings.

Mao XM, Guo AJ, Yuan XH, Cui MY, Zhang D, Ge YL, Sun GG.

BACKGROUND: Pneumonia-type lung cancer is a specific type of lung cancer with 
low incidence, lack of clinical specificity, and strong imaging similarity to 
pneumonia, which can be easily misdiagnosed as a lung infection.
METHODS: We report a special case of a patient who was misdiagnosed as 
Mycoplasma pneumonia by routine blood tests, bronchoscopy, NGS of alveolar 
lavage fluid and combined with the patient's lung CT imaging features, and then 
was definitively diagnosed as lung adenocarcinoma by percutaneous lung puncture.
RESULTS: The patient's solid shadow in the right lower lung remained unabsorbed 
after aggressive anti-infection, and finally the diagnosis of lung 
adenocarcinoma was finally clarified by percutaneous lung puncture.
CONCLUSIONS: In middle-aged and elderly patients with a first diagnosis of lung 
infection, if the exudate shadow remains unabsorbed after aggressive empirical 
anti-infective treatment, the infection should be aggressively investigated for 
specific pathogens such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis, nontuberculous 
mycobacteria, fungi, adenoviruses, etc., and in addition to that, malignant 
lesions should also be investigated.

DOI: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2025.241253
PMID: 40663072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Rev Med Virol. 2025 Jul;35(4):e70057. doi: 10.1002/rmv.70057.

Oral Manifestations in the Post COVID-19 Condition: A Systematic Review With 
Meta-Analysis.

Avais LS(1)(2), Pacheco EC(2), Gomes LPOZ(3), Baldani MH(4), Martins CM(5), 
Waldman EA(6), Gonzalez JPJ(1), Steen TY(1), Borges PKO(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Georgetown University School of 
Medicine, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(2)Graduate Program in Dentistry, State University of Ponta Grossa (UEPG), Ponta 
Grossa, Brazil.
(3)University of Joinville (UNIVILLE), Joinville, Brazil.
(4)Department of Dentistry, State University of Ponta Grossa, Ponta Grossa, 
Brazil.
(5)Department of Medicine, State University of Ponta Grossa, Ponta Grossa, 
Brazil.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(7)Department of Public Health, State University of Ponta Grossa, Ponta Grossa, 
Brazil.

Post-COVID-19 condition, or Long COVID, is characterised by symptoms persisting 
or emerging beyond 12 weeks after acute infection. Among over 200 reported 
symptoms, oral manifestations such as taste loss and dry mouth have been 
identified. This systematic review reports the frequency and characteristics of 
these symptoms. Registered in PROSPERO and following PRISMA guidelines, the 
review included observational studies on COVID-19-positive adults presenting 
oral symptoms in the post-COVID-19 condition. A search in six databases 
(Medline/PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane, SCOPUS, and LILACS) was 
conducted in January 2024. Risk of bias was assessed using Joanna Briggs 
Institute's critical appraisal tools, and certainty of evidence via GRADE. A 
meta-analysis using the inverse variance method estimated oral symptom 
prevalence. Of 4552 articles, 107 were included. Taste dysfunction persisted in 
8% (95% CI 6%-10%) of patients beyond 12 weeks. Combined taste and smell 
alterations had a prevalence of 17% (95% CI 13%-21%). Less frequent symptoms 
included hyposalivation, periodontitis, mouth ulcers, tongue mucosal changes, 
facial tingling, sensitivity in the trigeminal nerve, difficulty swallowing, and 
lesions in the hard palate. Taste alterations were the most commonly reported 
symptom, underscoring the need for clinical recognition and appropriate 
management by oral health professionals. Additionally, the wide range of other 
oral manifestations highlights the necessity for further research to better 
understand their prevalence, underlying mechanisms, and clinical implications in 
post-COVID-19 patients.

© 2025 The Author(s). Reviews in Medical Virology published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/rmv.70057
PMCID: PMC12262108
PMID: 40663038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Cytotherapy. 2025 Jun 4:S1465-3249(25)00722-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jcyt.2025.05.011.  Online ahead of print.

Clinical trial assessing the safety and efficacy of human bone marrow-derived 
allogeneic mesenchymal stem cell therapy for chronic active antibody-mediated 
rejection in kidney transplant recipients.

Park H(1), Fang X(2), Lee H(1), Ban TH(3), Oh EJ(4), Yoon HE(1), Kim HD(5), 
Chung BH(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul St. Mary's 
Hospital, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Transplantation Research Center, College of Medicine, The Catholic University 
of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Transplantation Research Center, College of Medicine, The Catholic University 
of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Division of Nephrology, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Eunpyeong St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of 
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Transplantation Research Center, College of Medicine, The Catholic University 
of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Division of Nephrology, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Eunpyeong St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: scamph@catholic.ac.kr.
(6)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul St. Mary's 
Hospital, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea; 
Transplantation Research Center, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: chungbh@catholic.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND AIMS: This study evaluated the safety and efficacy of allogenic human 
bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (hBM-MSC) therapy in kidney transplant 
recipients (KTR) with chronic active antibody-mediated rejection (cABMR).
METHODS: Seven cABMR patients received four infusions of hBM-MSC (1 × 10⁶ 
cells/kg), one every other week. The primary outcome was clinical safety, 
focusing on short-term adverse events. Secondary outcomes included changes in 
allograft function, mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of donor-specific 
anti-human leukocyte antigen antibodies (HLA-DSA), allogenic immune response as 
determined by ELISPOT, lymphocyte subset analysis, infection-free survival, and 
graft survival compared to 18 historical controls via propensity score matching.
RESULTS: Seven patients received hBM-MSC therapy at a median of 5.4 years 
(range, 1.6-15.3) after KT and 8.5 months (range, 1.2-20.6) after the diagnosis 
of cABMR. Six patients completed treatment, and one patient received two doses. 
No immediate side effects were observed. One patient developed Pneumocystis 
jirovecii pneumonia (PJP) 3 weeks after treatment and died 6 weeks 
post-treatment. Among those who completed therapy, the eGFR slope shifted from 
-Δ16.6% to -Δ2.4% over the 6 month periods before and after treatment, 
suggesting a stabilization of eGFR decline, proteinuria decreased, and MFI of 
HLA-DSA declined. T-cell subset analysis showed increased CD8+CD45RA+CCR7- T 
cells and CD4+CD25+CD127low T cells with decreased CD8+CCR7+CD45RO+/CD45RA+ T 
cells. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated no significant difference in 
infection-free survival or death-censored graft survival compared to those of 
the propensity score-matched control group. No significant difference in 
infection-free survival or death-censored graft survival compared to those of 
the propensity score-matched control group.
CONCLUSIONS: hBM-MSC therapy was generally well tolerated for KTR with cABMR and 
demonstrated favorable immunomodulatory effects. Larger, controlled trials with 
extended period are required to validate these findings and better define the 
role of hBM-MSC therapy for cABMR.

Copyright © 2025 International Society for Cell & Gene Therapy. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2025.05.011
PMID: 40663031

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no potential conflicts of interest.


58. Epilepsia. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1111/epi.18551. Online ahead of print.

Chronic behavioral and seizure outcomes following experimental traumatic brain 
injury and comorbid Klebsiella pneumoniae lung infection in mice.

Rewell SSJ(1), Shad A(1)(2), Chen L(1), Chu E(1), Wang J(3), Chen K(3), O'Brien 
TJ(1)(2)(4), Li J(3), Casillas Espinosa PM(1)(2), Semple BD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, The School of Translational Medicine, Monash 
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Alfred Health, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Monash Biomedical Discovery Institute, Monash 
University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Medicine (Royal Melbourne Hospital), University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading cause of long-term 
disability, and infections such as pneumonia represent a common and serious 
complication for patients with TBI in the acute and subacute post-injury period. 
Although the acute effects of infections have been documented, their long-term 
consequences on neurological and behavioral recovery as well as the potential 
precipitation of seizures after TBI remain unclear. This study aimed to 
investigate the chronic effects of Klebsiella pneumoniae infection following 
TBI, focusing on post-traumatic seizure development and neurobehavioral changes.
METHODS: Using a mouse model, we assessed the long-term effects of TBI and K. 
pneumoniae infection both in isolation and in combination.
RESULTS: We found that, although infection with K. pneumoniae resulted in loss 
of body weight and increased mortality compared to vehicle-inoculated mice, 
there was no additional mortality in TBI animals. Furthermore, although TBI 
alone induced chronic hyperactivity and reduced anxiety-like behaviors, K. 
pneumoniae lung infection had no lasting effect on these long-term outcomes. 
Third, although TBI resulted in both spontaneous and evoked seizures long-term 
post-injury, early post-injury K. pneumoniae infection did not affect late-onset 
seizure susceptibility.
SIGNIFICANCE: Together with recent findings on acute outcomes in this combined 
insult model of TBI and K. pneumoniae infection, this study suggests that K. 
pneumoniae does not significantly alter long-term neurobehavioral outcomes or 
the development of post-traumatic epilepsy. This research highlights the need to 
further explore the interplay between additional immune insults such as 
infection that may influence long-term recovery.

© 2025 The Author(s). Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of 
International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.18551
PMID: 40663020


59. Bioinformatics. 2025 Jul 1;41(Supplement_1):i332-i341. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf212.

Ultrafast and ultralarge multiple sequence alignments using TWILIGHT.

Tseng YH(1), Walia S(1), Turakhia Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California 
San Diego, San Diego, CA 92093, United States.

MOTIVATION: Multiple sequence alignment (MSA) is a fundamental operation in 
bioinformatics, yet existing MSA tools are struggling to keep up with the speed 
and volume of incoming data. This is because the runtimes and memory 
requirements of current MSA tools become untenable when processing large numbers 
of long input sequences, and they also fail to fully harness the parallelism 
provided by modern CPUs and GPUs.
RESULTS: We present Tall and Wide Alignments at High Throughput (TWILIGHT), a 
novel MSA tool optimized for speed, accuracy, scalability, and memory 
constraints, with both CPU and GPU support. TWILIGHT incorporates innovative 
parallelization and memory-efficiency strategies that enable it to build 
ultralarge alignments at high speed even on memory-constrained devices. On 
challenging datasets, TWILIGHT outperformed all other tools in speed and 
accuracy. It scaled beyond the limits of existing tools and performed an 
alignment of 1 million RNASim sequences within 30 min while utilizing <16 GB of 
memory. TWILIGHT is the first tool to align over 8 million publicly available 
SARS-CoV-2 sequences, setting a new standard for large-scale genomic alignment 
and data analysis.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: TWILIGHT's code is freely available under the 
MIT license at https://github.com/TurakhiaLab/TWILIGHT. The test datasets and 
experimental results, including our alignment of 8 million SARS-CoV-2 sequences, 
are available at https://zenodo.org/records/14722035.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf212
PMID: 40662833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Bioinformatics. 2025 Jul 1;41(Supplement_1):i628-i636. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf210.

Recovering time-varying networks from single-cell data.

Hasanaj E(1), Póczos B(1), Bar-Joseph Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Machine Learning Department, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213, United States.
(2)Computational Biology Department, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213, United States.

MOTIVATION: Gene regulation is a dynamic process that underlies all aspects of 
human development, disease response, and other biological processes. The 
reconstruction of temporal gene regulatory networks has conventionally relied on 
regression analysis, graphical models, or other types of relevance networks. 
With the large increase in time series single-cell data, new approaches are 
needed to address the unique scale and nature of these data for reconstructing 
such networks.
RESULTS: Here, we develop a deep neural network, Marlene, to infer dynamic 
graphs from time series single-cell gene expression data. Marlene constructs 
directed gene networks using a self-attention mechanism where the weights evolve 
over time using recurrent units. By employing meta learning, the model is able 
to recover accurate temporal networks even for rare cell types. In addition, 
Marlene can identify gene interactions relevant to specific biological 
responses, including COVID-19 immune response, fibrosis, and aging, paving the 
way for potential treatments.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The code used to train Marlene is available at 
https://github.com/euxhenh/Marlene.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf210
PMID: 40662830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Bioinformatics. 2025 Jul 1;41(Supplement_1):i391-i400. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf245.

EnsembleDesign: messenger RNA design minimizing ensemble free energy via 
probabilistic lattice parsing.

Dai N(1), Zhou T(1), Tang WY(1), Mathews DH(2)(3)(4), Huang L(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Oregon State 
University, Corvallis, OR 97330, United States.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Rochester Medical 
Center, Rochester, NY 14642, United States.
(3)Center for RNA Biology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY 
14642, United States.
(4)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, University of 
Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY 14642, United States.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Oregon State University, 
Corvallis, OR 97330, United States.

MOTIVATION: The task of designing optimized messenger RNA (mRNA) sequences has 
received much attention in recent years, thanks to breakthroughs in mRNA 
vaccines during the COVID-19 pandemic. Because most previous work aimed to 
minimize the minimum free energy (MFE) of the mRNA in order to improve stability 
and protein expression, which only considers one particular structure per mRNA 
sequence, millions of alternative conformations in equilibrium are neglected. 
More importantly, we prefer an mRNA to populate multiple stable structures and 
be flexible among them during translation when the ribosome unwinds it.
RESULTS: Therefore, we consider a new objective to minimize the ensemble free 
energy of an mRNA, which includes all possible structures in its Boltzmann 
ensemble. However, this new problem is much harder to solve than the original 
MFE optimization. To address the increased complexity of this problem, we 
introduce EnsembleDesign, a novel algorithm that employs continuous relaxation 
to optimize the expected ensemble free energy over a distribution of candidate 
sequences. EnsembleDesign extends both the lattice representation of the design 
space and the dynamic programming algorithm from LinearDesign to their 
probabilistic counterparts. Our algorithm consistently outperforms LinearDesign 
in terms of ensemble free energy, especially on long sequences. Interestingly, 
as byproducts, our designs also enjoy lower average unpaired probabilities 
(which correlates with degradation) and flatter Boltzmann ensembles (more 
flexibility between conformations).
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: Our code is available on: 
https://github.com/LinearFold/EnsembleDesign.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf245
PMID: 40662826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Bioinformatics. 2025 Jul 1;41(Supplement_1):i362-i372. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf228.

CATH-ddG: towards robust mutation effect prediction on protein-protein 
interactions out of CATH homologous superfamily.

Yu G(1)(2)(3), Bi X(3), Ma T(1)(2), Li Y(4), Wang J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Central South University, 
Changsha 410083, China.
(2)Hunan Provincial Key Lab on Bioinformatics, Central South University, 
Changsha 410083, China.
(3)College of Medical Engineering and Technology, Xinjiang Medical University, 
Urumqi 830017, China.
(4)Department of Computer Science, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA 23529, 
United States.

MOTIVATION: Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) are fundamental aspects in 
understanding biological processes. Accurately predicting the effects of 
mutations on PPIs remains a critical requirement for drug design and disease 
mechanistic studies. Recently, deep learning models using protein 3D structures 
have become predominant for predicting mutation effects. However, significant 
challenges remain in practical applications, in part due to the considerable 
disparity in generalization capabilities between easy and hard mutations. 
Specifically, a hard mutation is defined as one with its maximum TM-score <0.6 
when compared to the training set. Additionally, compared to physics-based 
approaches, deep learning models may overestimate performance due to potential 
data leakage.
RESULTS: We propose new training/test splits that mitigate data leakage 
according to the CATH homologous superfamily. Under the constraints of physical 
energy, protein 3D structures, and CATH domain objectives, we employ a hybrid 
noise strategy as data augmentation and present a geometric encoder scenario, 
named CATH-ddG, to represent the mutational microenvironment differences between 
wild-type and mutated protein complexes. Additionally, we fine-tune ESM2 
representations by incorporating a lightweight nonlinear module to achieve the 
transferability of sequence co-evolutionary information. Finally, our study 
demonstrates that CATH-ddG framework provides enhanced generalization by 
outperforming other baselines on non-superfamily leakage splits, which plays a 
crucial role in exploring robust mutation effect regression prediction. 
Independent case studies demonstrate successful enhancement of binding affinity 
on 419 antibody variants to human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) and 
285 variants in the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2 to 
angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: CATH-ddG is available at 
https://github.com/ak422/CATH-ddG.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf228
PMID: 40662779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Bioinformatics. 2025 Jul 1;41(Supplement_1):i246-i254. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf211.

CREMSA: compressed indexing of (ultra) large multiple sequence alignments.

Salson M(1), Boddaert A(2), Gueye AB(2), Bulteau L(3), Hernandez-Courbevoie 
Y(2), Marchet C(1), Pan N(4), Will S(4), Ponty Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Univ. Lille, CNRS, Centrale Lille, UMR 9189 CRIStAL, F-59000 Lille, France.
(2)Département d'Informatique, Lille University, F-59000 Lille, France.
(3)CNRS UMR 8049 LIGM, Gustave Eiffel University, F-77420 Marne-la-Vallée, 
France.
(4)CNRS UMR 7161 LIX, Ecole Polytechnique, Institut Polytechnique de Paris, 
F-91120 Palaiseau, France.

MOTIVATION: Recent viral outbreaks motivate the systematic collection of 
pathogenic genomes in order to accelerate their study and monitor the 
apparition/spread of variants. Due to their limited length and temporal 
proximity of their sequencing, viral genomes are usually organized, and analyzed 
as oversized Multiple Sequence Alignments (MSAs). Such MSAs are largely 
ungapped, and mostly homogeneous on a column-wise level but not at a sequential 
level due to local variations, hindering the performances of sequential 
compression algorithms.
RESULTS: In order to enable an efficient handling of MSAs, including subsequent 
statistical analyses, we introduce CREMSA (Column-wise Run-length Encoding for 
MSAs), a new index that builds on sparse bitvector representations to compress 
an existing or streamed MSA, all the while allowing for an expressive set of 
accelerated requests to query the alignment without prior decompression. Using 
CREMSA, a 65 GB MSA consisting of 1.9M SARS-CoV 2 genomes could be compressed 
into 22 MB using less than half a gigabyte of main memory, while executing 
access requests in the order of 100 ns. Such a speed up enables a comprehensive 
analysis of covariation over this very large MSA. We further assess the impact 
of the sequence ordering on the compressibility of MSAs and propose a resorting 
strategy that, despite the proven NP-hardness of an optimal sort, induces 
greatly increased compression ratios at a marginal computational cost.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: CREMSA is freely accessible at 
https://gitlab.univ-lille.fr/cremsa/cremsa. The Snakemake workflow for the 
benchmarks is available at: https://gitlab.univ-lille.fr/cremsa/bench. The data 
used in the paper is on Zenodo at https://zenodo.org/records/14698859 and 
https://zenodo.org/records/15100011.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaf211
PMID: 40662774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. HIV Med. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1111/hiv.70074. Online ahead of print.

Impact of three different interventions designed to improve the implementation 
of an opt-in targeted strategy of HIV testing in emergency departments.

Del Castillo JG(1), Espinosa B(2), Cabrera N(3), Moreno MTS(4), Mayán P(5), 
Rebollo A(6), Gamazo JJ(7), Faya HM(8), Montalvo MEP(9), Baez I(10), de Paz 
R(11), Cabañas J(12), Manzanares JÁ(13), Miró Ò(14); Emergency HIV Network 
Investigators.

Collaborators: Arribi A, Díaz RR, Hernándo CG, Villena H, Rodríguez B, Macho M, 
Feblez MH, García FG, Solís VB, Suñer MSF, Tárraga RV.

Author information:
(1)Emergency Department, IdISSC, Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Emergency Department, Hospital General doctor Balmis de Alicante, Alicante, 
Spain.
(3)Emergency Department, Hospital Universitario Dr. Negrín, Gran Canaria, Spain.
(4)Emergency Department, Hospital Universitario Clínico de Valencia, Valencia, 
Spain.
(5)Emergency Department, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Santiago, Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain.
(6)Emergency Department, Hospital Universitario de Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Emergency Department, Hospital Universitario de Galdakao, Bilbao, Spain.
(8)Emergency Department, Hospital Universitario de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(9)Emergency Department, Hospital Universitario San Cecilio, Granada, Spain.
(10)Emergency Department, Hospital Universitario Nuestra Señora de la 
Candelaria, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Spain.
(11)Emergency Department, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Emergency Department, Complejo Hospitalario Universitario de Toledo, 
IDISCAM, Toledo, Spain.
(13)Emergency Department, Hospital Universitario Rio Hortega, Valladolid, Spain.
(14)Emergency Department, Hospital Clínic, IDIBAPS, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: Undiagnosed HIV infection remains the main driver of new HIV cases 
in Western countries. Emergency Departments (EDs) offer a key opportunity for 
detection. In 2020, Spanish emergency and infectious diseases societies 
recommended an opt-in strategy for targeted conditions for HIV testing in EDs. 
This study evaluates the efficacy of three strategies for targeted HIV testing.
METHODS: Twelve Spanish EDs, selected based on predefined structural criteria, 
assessed HIV testing from April to June 2024. Hospitals applied: no strategy 
(control, three EDs), an educational programme (strategy A, three EDs), strategy 
A plus preconfigured electronic orders (strategy B, three EDs) or strategy B 
plus electronic alerts in medical records (strategy C, three EDs). The impact on 
HIV testing was measured overall and by targeted condition, using absolute 
differences with 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: Of the 612 909 ED visits, 210 039 occurred in control hospitals (1232 
patients [0.59%] had targeted conditions), 172 806 in hospitals applying 
strategy A (1497 [0.87%]), 132 835 in strategy B hospitals (1761 [1.33%]) and 
97 229 in hospitals applying strategy C (1269 [1.31%]). Testing rates were 
0.16%, 0.38%, 1.17% and 2.16% in the control, and strategy A, B and C EDs., 
respectively. Among patients with targeted conditions, testing reached 13.1%, 
22.9%, 30.7% and 78.1%. Compared to no strategy, testing increased by 0.22% (95% 
CI = 0.18-0.25) with strategy A, 0.79% (95% CI = 0.73-0.86) with B, and 0.98% 
(95% CI = 0.88-1.09) with C. In targeted conditions, testing rose by 9.8%, 7.8% 
and 47.5% for strategies A, B and C, respectively. All strategies improved 
testing in sexually transmitted infections (STI), meningitis/neurological 
syndromes and community-acquired pneumonia (CAP); strategy C also increased 
testing in herpes zoster (HZ) and post-exposure prophylaxis.
CONCLUSION: All the strategies evaluated enhanced targeted HIV testing, 
especially strategy C (electronic alerts), which was associated with the highest 
testing rates observed, particularly in STI, CAP and HZ.

© 2025 British HIV Association.

DOI: 10.1111/hiv.70074
PMID: 40662676


65. Microbiol Spectr. 2025 Jul 15:e0277124. doi: 10.1128/spectrum.02771-24.
Online  ahead of print.

Shifts in bla genes and Class 1 integron prevalence in beta-lactamase-producing 
bacteria before and after the COVID-19 pandemic in Mendoza, Argentina.

Márquez-Friedrichs F(#)(1), Nolly MB(#)(1)(2), Ferreyra A(3)(4), Zuloaga L(3), 
Dominguez S(3), Secotaro A(3), Rathour VS(1)(2), Damiani MT(1)(2), Contreras 
L(3), Sánchez DG(#)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Bioquímica e Inmunidad, Instituto de Bioquímica y 
Biotecnología, Facultad de Ciencias Médicas, Universidad Nacional de Cuyo, 
Mendoza, Argentina.
(2)IMBECU-CONICET, Mendoza, Argentina.
(3)Laboratorio de Bacteriología del Hospital Central, Mendoza, Argentina.
(4)Área de Microbiología, Facultad de Ciencias Médicas, Universidad Nacional de 
Cuyo, Mendoza, Argentina.
(5)Laboratorio de Biotecnología, Facultad de Ciencias Aplicadas a la Industria, 
Universidad Nacional de Cuyo (UNCuyo), San Rafael, Argentina.
(6)Instituto de Ingeniería y Ciencias Aplicadas a la Industria (ICAI), Consejo 
Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET)-UNCuyo, San Rafael, 
Argentina.
(#)Contributed equally

This study analyzes the molecular epidemiology of bla genes and Class 1 integron 
in broad-spectrum beta-lactamase (BSBL) and extended-spectrum beta-lactamase 
(ESBL) producing strains of bacteria isolated from clinical samples of 
hospitalized and ambulatory patients before and after the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Isolates obtained in two periods were compared: the first corresponding to the 
years November 2019-March 2020, and the second to the years November 2021-April 
2022. We evaluate changes in resistance patterns of antibiotics associated with 
pressures on the healthcare system and social lockdowns. A total of 156 isolates 
were analyzed: 78 from the first period (61 hospitalized, 17 ambulatory) and 78 
from the second period (47 hospitalized, 31 ambulatory). Escherichia coli and 
Klebsiella pneumoniae were the predominant bacterial species, representing 85% 
of the isolates in both periods. The frequency of ambulatory ESBL-producing 
isolates increased significantly, from 22% (17/78) to 40% (31/78; P < 0.01) in 
the second period. The prevalence of blaSHV increased from 24% (19/78) to 72% 
(56/78; P < 0.01) in the second period, while the blaCTX-M-2 group, absent in 
the first period, was detected in 43% (34/78) of isolates from the second 
period. Strains from the second period exhibited greater genetic complexity, 
with an increased prevalence of combinations involving three or more bla genes, 
including isolates carrying up to five of such genes. Class 1 integron showed a 
strong correlation with resistance to ciprofloxacin and 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. The gene blaOXA-1, previously associated with 
resistance to beta-lactamase inhibitors, did not show a clear pattern in the 
second period.IMPORTANCEAntimicrobial resistance associated with the production 
of extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) represents a critical global health 
challenge, particularly due to the limited development of new antibiotics. This 
is the first report from Argentina's central-west region examining the 
prevalence of beta-lactamase-encoding genes, providing a framework for future 
research. Our findings reveal a significant increase in bacteria with the ESBL 
phenotype, particularly among ambulatory populations post-pandemic, suggesting a 
concerning spread of multidrug-resistant bacteria outside hospital environments. 
This could compromise empirical antibiotic treatments for ambulatory patients, 
increasing the risk of severe complications. Our results highlight the urgent 
need for ongoing surveillance to detect virulent strains before clonal spread or 
horizontal gene transfer occurs in the community. They also emphasize the 
importance of strategies to ensure the prudent use of antimicrobials and 
mitigate the increasing prevalence of resistance genes, which threatens the 
effectiveness of current therapeutic options.

DOI: 10.1128/spectrum.02771-24
PMID: 40662585


66. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2025 Jul;60(7):e71199. doi: 10.1002/ppul.71199.

Online Tool for Predicting Severe Cases of Childhood Community-Acquired 
Pneumonia Based on the PIRO Concept.

Long X(1)(2), Li W(2)(3)(4), Tang Y(2)(3)(4), Luo Z(2)(3)(4), Luo J(2)(3)(4), Fu 
Z(3)(4)(5), Liu E(2)(3)(4), Xu X(6)(7), Deng Y(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, National Clinical Research Center for Child Health and Disorders, 
Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child Development and Disorders, 
Chongqing, China.
(2)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Child Rare Disease in Infection and Immunity, 
Chongqing, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, National Clinical Research Center for Child Health and Disorders, 
Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child Development and Disorders, 
Chongqing, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Children's Vital Organ Development and Diseases of 
Chongqing Health Commission, Chongqing, China.
(5)Chongqing Engineering Research Center of Stem Cell Therapy, Chongqing, China.
(6)Big Data Center for Children's Medical Care, Children's Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, National Clinical Research Center for Child Health and 
Disorders, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child Development and 
Disorders, Chongqing, China.
(7)Chongqing Higher Institution Engineering Research Center of Children's 
Medical Big Data Intelligent Application, Chongqing, China.

BACKGROUND: Pneumonia remains a leading cause of mortality among children under 
5 years of age. This study aimed to compare existing prognostic scoring systems 
and identify the most effective tool for assessing outcomes in children with 
community-acquired pneumonia (CAP).
METHODS: The Predisposition, Insult, Response, and Organ Dysfunction score for 
CAP (PIRO-CAP) was modified to create the Ch-online PIRO score based on a 
comprehensive cohort study. This new scoring system was validated in a cohort of 
75,965 children under the age of 5 years with CAP, treated at the Children's 
Hospital of Chongqing Medical University between 2016 and 2021. Effectiveness in 
predicting severe cases was then compared against the Pediatric Critical Illness 
Score (PCIS), Pneumonia Etiology Research for Child Health (PERCH) score, and 
PIRO-CAP score.
RESULTS: The Ch-online PIRO score retained most of the original PIRO-CAP 
factors, including age under 6 months, comorbidities, SpO2 below 90%, multilobar 
or complicated pneumonia, kidney or liver dysfunction, and respiratory failure, 
but replaced hypotension and bacteremia with delayed capillary refill time 
(> 3 s) and procalcitonin > 0.5 ng/mL. When predicting severe CAP cases, the 
Ch-online PIRO score demonstrated superior discriminatory performance 
(AUC = 0.85, 95% CI: 0.85-0.86) compared to the PCIS (AUC = 0.67, 95% CI: 
0.66-0.69), PERCH score (AUC = 0.64, 95% CI: 0.64-0.65), and PIRO-CAP score 
(AUC = 0.68, 95% CI: 0.64-0.71).
CONCLUSION: The Ch-online PIRO score shows promise as an effective prognostic 
tool for assessing the severity of CAP in young children.

© 2025 The Author(s). Pediatric Pulmonology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.71199
PMID: 40662510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2025 Jul;60(7):e71059. doi: 10.1002/ppul.71059.

Assessing the Impact of Nirsevimab Immunization on RSV Bronchiolitis Hospital 
Admissions and Their Severity: A Case-Control Study and Comparison With Pre- and 
Post-COVID-19 Seasons in a Tertiary Pediatric Hospital.

Guerrero-Del-Cueto F(1)(2), Lobato-Lopez S(1), Lozano-Duran D(1), Sanchez-Duran 
B(1), Ramirez-Martin L(1), Esteban-San-Narciso B(1), Sosa-Hernandez S(1), 
Martin-Pedraz L(1), Moreno-Perez D(1)(2)(3)(4), Leiva-Gea I(1)(2)(3), 
Nuñez-Cuadros E(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics at the Malaga Mother-and-Child Hospital, Hospital 
Regional Universitario de Malaga, Malaga, Spain.
(2)Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Malaga, Malaga, Spain.
(3)Instituto de Investigacion Biomedica de Malaga (Biomedical Research Institute 
of Malaga), Malaga, Spain.
(4)Consejería de Salud y Familias de la Junta de Andalucia, Seville, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: This study evaluates nirsevimab's real-world effectiveness in 
preventing respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) bronchiolitis hospitalizations 
after its introduction in Andalusia's immunization schedule, compares clinical 
outcomes between immunized and non-immunized infants (2023-2024), and examines 
RSV seasonality pre- and post-COVID-19.
METHODS: Retrospective single-center case-control study conducted at a tertiary 
pediatric hospital (Malaga Regional University Hospital). Infants hospitalized 
for PCR-confirmed RSV bronchiolitis during the first season after nirsevimab 
introduction were matched with two controls born on the same day. Immunization 
status, demographic data, and clinical outcomes were analyzed. As a secondary 
analysis, clinical characteristics and adverse outcomes of immunized and 
non-immunized RSV bronchiolitis cases from the 2023-2024 season were compared 
with four previous periods: pre-pandemic decade (04/2010-03/2020), first 
pandemic season (04/2020-03/2021), second pandemic season (04/2021-03/2022) and 
third pandemic season (04/2022-03/2023).
RESULTS: Nirsevimab showed 91.5% effectiveness (95% CI: 71.8%-97.4%) in reducing 
RSV bronchiolitis hospitalizations, which decreased 72.4% from the pre-pandemic 
average and 82.4% from 04/2022-03/2023. Intensive-care-unit admissions were 
significantly higher in non-immunized infants (60.0% vs. 26.1%, p = 0.04), with 
no differences in bacterial superinfection, oxygen requirement and 
length-of-stay.
CONCLUSIONS: Nirsevimab significantly reduced RSV bronchiolitis hospitalizations 
during its first season of use. The study also highlights shifts in RSV 
seasonality trends influenced by the COVID-19 pandemic, highlighting the need 
for ongoing surveillance to adapt public health strategies.

© 2025 The Author(s). Pediatric Pulmonology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.71059
PMID: 40662491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1111/jir.70013. Online ahead of
 print.

Oral Health and Pneumonia in Adults With Intellectual and Developmental 
Disabilities: A Scoping Review.

Byrne K(1)(2), Lisiecka D(3), Moran G(4), Daly B(4), Fleischmann I(4), McCallion 
P(5), McCarron M(2), Phadraig CMG(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Dental Science, Trinity College, University of Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(2)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(3)Department of Nursing and Healthcare Sciences, Munster Technological 
University - Kerry Campus, Tralee, Co. Kerry, Ireland.
(4)Dublin Dental University Hospital & School of Dental Science, Trinity 
College, University of Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(5)School of Social Work, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Pneumonia is a leading cause of death for people with intellectual 
and developmental disabilities (IDD), who also have increased risk of oral 
disease. Given the known relationship between oral disease and pneumonia in 
similar populations, this review aims to explore what is known about the 
association between oral health and pneumonia among people with IDD.
METHODS: This systematic scoping review was carried out in accordance with the 
Joanna Briggs Institute methods and the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic 
Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews checklist (PRISMA-ScR). 
A systematic search of Medline (Ovid), Embase, Cochrane Trials, Cochrane Review, 
CINAHL and PubMed was conducted, guided by a registered protocol. The PCC 
framework informed the search and inclusion criteria. Titles and abstracts were 
independently screened by two reviewers, with full texts assessed for relevance 
to oral health and pneumonia in adults with IDD.
RESULTS: Following a protocol and defined criteria, (2544) articles were 
abstract screened; a further (31) reached full-text review, with (7) included in 
this review. Study designs included cross-sectional studies (2), retrospective 
cohorts (2), prospective cohorts (2) and one RCT pilot (1). Six studies reported 
oral carriage of respiratory pathogens such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumoniae. Two studies reported 
predictive relationships between oral pathogens and pneumonia, with increased 
odds of respiratory illness associated with positive PCR results for specific 
pathogens (OR 9.0, 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.3-38.8). Two studies 
identified poor oral health as a predictor of pneumonia, using validated tools 
such as the ROAG (OR 1.6, 95% CI 1.1-2.5). Mediating factors included enteral 
feeding, level of IDD, and history of oral disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Research consistently finds carriage of potential respiratory 
pathogens in the oral microbiome of people with IDD. Despite this, there is a 
significant lack of research into the relationship between the oral microbiome, 
poor oral health, and pneumonia in this population, though the latter two are 
both prevalent and consequential. There is an urgent need for further research 
exploring the role that oral health and the oral microbiome play in pneumonia 
among people with IDD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Intellectual Disability Research published by 
MENCAP and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jir.70013
PMID: 40662304


69. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2025 Jun 30;15:1480123. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2025.1480123. eCollection 2025.

Effect of prone positioning on inflammatory markers in blood and lungs: a 
retrospective cohort study in COVID-19-related ARDS.

Hu C(#)(1), Peng L(#)(2), Liu K(3), Yang L(1), Zhang Y(1), Deng H(1), Li 
H(#)(1), Jiang MY(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Medicine, Xiangtan Central Hospital, 
Xiangtan, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Xiangtan Central Hospital, Xiangtan, Hunan, China.
(3)Department of Hematology, Xiangtan Central Hospital, Xiangtan, Hunan, China.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Prone positioning is a commonly recommended intervention in 
clinical practice to enhance oxygenation in COVID-19 patients with ARDS, but its 
effects on inflammatory markers in the blood and lungs have not been thoroughly 
investigated.
METHODS: This retrospective study examined COVID-19-related ARDS patients 
admitted to the ICU of a tertiary hospital between January 2020 and November 
2023. The analysis focused on measuring cytokines and lymphocyte subsets in both 
blood and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) to evaluate the impact of prone 
positioning on inflammatory markers in the lungs and systemic circulation.
RESULTS: Of the 86 intubated patients, 44 were included in the study, with 30 
undergoing prone positioning. Compared to the supine position, prone positioning 
was associated with elevated plasma levels of IL-12p70 and IL-4, as well as 
increased expression of IFN-α and TNF-α in BALF. With increased frequency of 
prone positioning, oxygenation progressively improved, accompanied by a rise in 
plasma IL-4 levels. No significant differences in peripheral blood lymphocyte 
levels were observed between the supine and prone groups.
CONCLUSION: This study sheds light on the potential mechanisms of prone 
positioning in both local and systemic circulation, particularly in the context 
of inflammatory markers. In COVID-19-related ARDS, prone positioning may 
strengthen the immune response by modulating inflammatory markers in the lungs 
and bloodstream.

Copyright © 2025 Hu, Peng, Liu, Yang, Zhang, Deng, Li and Jiang.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2025.1480123
PMCID: PMC12256543
PMID: 40661964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


70. Front Immunol. 2025 Jun 30;16:1560391. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1560391. 
eCollection 2025.

Single-cell RNA-sequencing highlights a curtailed NK cell function in 
convalescent COVID-19 pregnant women.

Salker MS(#)(1), Abd Aziz NH(#)(2), Prodan NC(1), Yang Z(1), Lankapalli AK(3), 
Lazar K(4), Shafiee MN(2), Kocak E(5)(6), Ganesan H(5), Pal SS(1), Khalid O(1), 
Kasim NM(7), Kalok A(2), Fuad NA(7), Bissinger AL(4), Ganzenmueller T(4), Iftner 
T(4), Kagan KO(1), Ossowski S(5)(6), Casadei N(5)(6), Brucker SY(1), Riess 
O(5)(6), Singh Y(1)(5)(6); Deutsche COVID-19 OMICS Initiative (DeCOI).

Author information:
(1)Department of Women's Health, Research Institute for Women's Health, 
University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti 
Kebangsaan Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Biology, Ineos Oxford Institute of Antimicrobial Research, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(4)Intitute for Medical Virology and Epidemiology of Viral Diseases, University 
Hospital Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(5)Institute of Medical Genetics and Applied Genomics, University of Tübingen, 
Tübingen, Germany.
(6)Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) Competence Centre Tübingen (NCCT), 
University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Sungai Buloh Hospital, 
Selangor, Malaysia.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: During gestation the immune system undergoes dramatic remodelling 
to protect the maternal-fetal dyad from infections whilst also preventing fetal 
rejection. We investigated how SARS-CoV-2 modifies the immune landscape during 
infection and in recovered pregnant women.
METHODS: We immunophenotyped our two independent geographical cohorts using a 
14-colour flow cytometry panel (surface and intracellular staining). We 
estimated cytokines and SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies in validation cohort using a 
multiplexd flow cytometry panel. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was 
performed using a Chromium Single Cell 3' Gel Bead Chip and Library Kit from 10x 
Genomics (Drop-seq method). Furthermore, we estimated the cytotoxic functions of 
natural killer (NK) cells by flow cytometry using surface and intracellular 
staining.
RESULTS: Using two independent geographical cohorts, we identified that NK cells 
had a sustained reduction during active infection and after recovery. Further, 
scRNA-seq data revealed that infection with SARS-CoV-2 rewired the gene 
expression profile of NK, monocytes, CD4+, CD8+ effector T cells and antibody 
producing B cells in convalescent pregnant women. Several gene pathways 
associated with cytotoxic function, interferon signalling type I & II, and pro- 
and anti-inflammatory functions in NK and CD8+ cytotoxic T cells were attenuated 
in recovered pregnant patients compared with healthy pregnancies. We validated 
our scRNA-seq of NK cells from convalescent pregnant women and confirmed that NK 
cells had diminished levels of cytotoxic proteins; perforin, CD122 and granzyme 
B.
DISCUSSION: Overall, our study uncovers that SARS-CoV-2 infection deranges the 
adaptive immune response in pregnant women even after recovery and may 
contribute to post-COVID19 sequalae of symptoms.

Copyright © 2025 Salker, Abd Aziz, Prodan, Yang, Lankapalli, Lazar, Shafiee, 
Kocak, Ganesan, Pal, Khalid, Kasim, Kalok, Fuad, Bissinger, Ganzenmueller, 
Iftner, Kagan, Ossowski, Casadei, Brucker, Riess and Singh.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1560391
PMCID: PMC12257036
PMID: 40661959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


71. Front Immunol. 2025 Jun 30;16:1601272. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1601272. 
eCollection 2025.

circ-0001875 downregulation is associated with M1 macrophage activation and lung 
inflammation in severe asthma.

Liu G(#)(1), Cao J(#)(1), Lin Y(1), Long B(1), Su Y(1), Qiu G(1), Jiang C(1), 
Wang Y(1), Zhao X(1), Huang D(1), Wu D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Asthma is a heterogeneous group of diseases. The mechanism by which 
dysregulated circRNAs affect severe asthma by regulating macrophage polarization 
remains unclear.
METHODS: High-throughput RNA sequencing technology was used to analyze circRNA 
expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with 
severe asthma. RT-qPCR and ELISA were used to analyze the expression of 
inflammatory factors in a mouse model of severe asthma induced by 
ovalbumin-lipopolysaccharide. The effect of circ-0001875 on macrophage 
activation and the underlying mechanism were analyzed by RT-qPCR, Western blot, 
and ELISA. Subsequently, the regulatory relationships among circ-0001875, 
miR-31-5p, and SP1 were examined through dual luciferase reporter gene assay, 
and the mechanism by which they regulate macrophage polarization was analyzed by 
Western blot.
RESULTS: Compared with the healthy control group, 420 circRNAs were 
differentially expressed in PBMCs from patients with severe asthma. Among them, 
circ-0001875, which was mainly expressed in the cytoplasm of monocytes, was 
significantly downregulated in asthmatics, especially those with severe disease. 
circ-0001875 overexpression inhibited M1 macrophage activation in vitro and 
alleviated lung inflammation in a mouse model of severe asthma. Mechanistically, 
circ-0001875 promoted SP1 translation by competitively binding to miR-31-5p, 
thereby reducing its inhibitory effect on SP1 translation; SP1 then inhibited M1 
macrophage polarization, which is associated with severe asthma, through the 
NF-κB signaling pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that circ-0001875 plays an important role in regulating M1 
macrophage polarization, which is associated with a severe pro-inflammatory 
response.

Copyright © 2025 Liu, Cao, Lin, Long, Su, Qiu, Jiang, Wang, Zhao, Huang and Wu.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1601272
PMCID: PMC12256210
PMID: 40661956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


72. ERJ Open Res. 2025 Jul 14;11(4):00865-2024. doi: 10.1183/23120541.00865-2024.
 eCollection 2025 Jul.

Clinical significance of respiratory bacteria and mycobacteria isolates in adult 
bronchiectasis in Taiwan.

Chang CL(1)(2), Sheu CC(3)(4), Wang PH(5), Hsieh MH(6)(7), Hsu WH(8)(9)(10), 
Chen MT(11), Ou WF(12), Wei YF(13)(14), Yang TM(15), Lan CC(16), Wang CY(17), 
Lin CB(18)(19), Lin MS(20), Wang YT(21)(22), Lin CH(23)(24)(25), Liu 
SF(7)(26)(27), Cheng MH(3)(28), Chen YF(29)(30), Cheng WC(8), Peng CK(11), Chan 
MC(31), Chen CY(13), Jao LY(16), Wang YH(32), Chen CJ(18), Chen SP(21)(22), Tsai 
YH(26)(33), Cheng SL(5)(34), Lin HC(6)(7)(35), Chien JY(36)(37), Wang 
HC(36)(38)(37).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital Hsin-Chu 
Branch, Hsin-Chu, Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(5)Division of Thoracic Medicine, Far Eastern Memorial Hospital, New Taipei 
City, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Thoracic Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at Linkou, 
Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(7)College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(8)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(9)Critical Medical Center, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(10)School of Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(11)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(12)Division of Chest Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Taichung 
Veterans General Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(13)Division of Chest Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, E-Da Cancer 
Hospital, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(14)School of Medicine for International Students, College of Medicine, I-Shou 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(15)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Chiayi Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital, Chiayi, Taiwan.
(16)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Taipei Tzu 
Chi Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(17)Department of Internal Medicine, Cardinal Tien Hospital and School of 
Medicine, College of Medicine, Fu Jen Catholic University, New Taipei City, 
Taiwan.
(18)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Hualien Tzu 
Chi Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, Hualien, Taiwan.
(19)School of Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualien, Taiwan.
(20)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Chia-Yi 
Christian Hospital, Chia-Yi, Taiwan.
(21)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Chung Shan 
Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(22)School of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(23)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Chest Medicine, Changhua 
Christian Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan.
(24)Institute of Genomics and Bioinformatics, National Chung Hsing University, 
Taichung, Taiwan.
(25)PhD Program in Translational Medicine, National Chung Hsing University, 
Taichung, Taiwan.
(26)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung City, Taiwan.
(27)Department of Respiratory Therapy, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
Kaohsiung City, Taiwan.
(28)Department of Respiratory Therapy, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(29)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Yunlin 
Branch, Douliu, Taiwan.
(30)Thoracic Medicine Center, Department of Medicine and Surgery, National 
Taiwan University Hospital Yunlin Branch, Yunlin County, Taiwan.
(31)School of Post Baccalaureate Medicine, College of Medicine, National Chung 
Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(32)Medical Research Center, Cardinal Tien Hospital and School of Medicine, 
College of Medicine, Fu Jen Catholic University, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(33)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Lee's Clinic, Pingtung, Taiwan.
(34)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, Yuan Ze 
University, Taoyuan City, Taiwan.
(35)Department of Respiratory Therapy, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at Linkou, 
Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(36)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, 
National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(37)J-Y. Chien and H-C. Wang contributed equally to this article as lead authors 
and supervised the work.
(38)Department of Medicine National Taiwan University Cancer Center, National 
Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1183/23120541.00113-2025.

BACKGROUND: The clinical impact of bacterial and mycobacterial isolates on 
bronchiectasis remains uncertain.
METHODS: Patients with bronchiectasis at 16 hospitals in Taiwan were recruited 
with a 1-year follow-up. The patients were classified into six groups: Group 1, 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa; Group 2, Klebsiella pneumoniae; Group 3, other bacteria; 
Group 4, non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM); Group 5, daily sputum without 
bacterial or NTM colonisation; and Group 6, dry bronchiectasis.
RESULTS: In total, 1416 patients (mean age 67 years; 43% males) were included. 
The mean modified Reiff score was 5 (range 1-18). 59% (829 patients) had sputum, 
whereas the remaining did not. The proportions of bacteria and NTM cultured from 
sputum within 1 year of observation were 27% (381/1416) and 15% (202/1416), 
respectively. The most common bacterial isolate was P. aeruginosa (13%), 
followed by K. pneumoniae (7%). 26% of the patients experienced severe 
exacerbations at least once within the year. The 1-year all-cause mortality rate 
was 3%. Patients with sputum exhibited a higher rate of severe exacerbations 
compared to patients with dry bronchiectasis, regardless of the presence of 
bacteria or NTM (p<0.001). Patients with bacterial colonisation had a higher 
mortality rate (p<0.001). Further, the highest mortality rate was observed among 
those with K. pneumoniae colonisation (hazard ratio (HR) 8.39 (95% CI 
2.39-29.49)), followed by individuals colonised with other bacteria (HR 8.04 
(95% CI 2.36-27.38)) and P. aeruginosa (HR 7.83 (95% CI 2.45-25.03)). 
Additionally, old age was an independent risk factor (HR 2.72 (95% CI 
1.19-6.18)).
CONCLUSION: K. pneumoniae was more frequently isolated from patients with 
bronchiectasis in Taiwan compared to Western countries and was associated with 
unfavourable clinical outcomes.

Copyright ©The authors 2025.

DOI: 10.1183/23120541.00865-2024
PMCID: PMC12257146
PMID: 40661934

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


73. Cureus. 2025 Jul 9;17(7):e87634. doi: 10.7759/cureus.87634. eCollection 2025 
Jul.

Exploring the Efficacy of Benralizumab in Chronic Eosinophilic Pneumonia 
Following Corticosteroid Therapeutic Failure: A Case Report.

De La O Villalobos S(1), Olivas Melendez P(2), Saenz Ramirez A(1), Gonzalez 
Plascencia M(1), Castillo Cabrera IR(1).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los 
Trabajadores del Estado (ISSSTE) Hospital General Lazaro Cardenas / Autonomous 
University of Chihuahua, Chihuahua, MEX.
(2)Pulmonology, Christus Muguerza Chihuahua / University of Monterrey, 
Chihuahua, MEX.

Chronic eosinophilic pneumonia is a rare idiopathic disease characterized by 
eosinophilic infiltrates in the alveoli and interstitial lung spaces. There are 
no specific diagnostic tests for this condition, but it is suspected in patients 
presenting with dyspnea, cough, a tomographic pattern of consolidations, 
peripheral ground-glass opacities, and peripheral eosinophilia. This report 
presents the case of a male patient with chronic eosinophilic pneumonia that was 
unresponsive to corticosteroid treatment.

Copyright © 2025, De La O Villalobos et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.87634
PMCID: PMC12257868
PMID: 40661825

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all 
authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared 
that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted 
work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no 
financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


74. Front Oncol. 2025 Jun 30;15:1564042. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2025.1564042.
eCollection  2025.

Postoperative pneumonia in patients with non-small cell lung cancer undergoing 
thoracoscopic surgery: What should we care about?

You J(#)(1), Chen D(#)(2), Liu X(1), Zhang H(2), Zheng Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The Affiliated Suqian Hospital of Xuzhou 
Medical University, Suqian, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The Affiliated Suqian First People's Hospital 
of Nanjing Medical University, Suqian, Jiangsu, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The prevention of postoperative pneumonia in patients with non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) undergoing thoracoscopic surgery holds significant 
clinical importance. This study aimed to evaluate the status quo and influencing 
factors of postoperative pneumonia in patients with NSCLC.
METHODS: Patients with NSCLC undergoing thoracoscopic surgery at our hospital 
from January 2023 to October 2024 were included. The characteristics of patients 
with and without postoperative pneumonia were analyzed. A logistic regression 
model was employed to analyze the influencing factors of postoperative 
pneumonia, and a corresponding predictive model was constructed. The predictive 
performance of the model was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic 
(ROC) curve analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 226 patients with NSCLC were included, the incidence of 
postoperative pneumonia in patients with NSCLC was 31.86%. Correlation analyses 
showed that age(r=0.570), scope of the surgical procedure(r=0.618), 
COPD(r=0.562), history of smoking(r=0.516) and hypoproteinemia(r=0.587) were 
associated with the occurrence of postoperative pneumonia. Logistic regression 
analysis revealed that age (OR=2.146, 95%CI: 1.439~3.045), scope of the surgical 
procedure (OR=3.009, 95%CI: 2.813~3.543), COPD (OR=2.312, 95%CI: 1.605~3.008), 
history of smoking (OR=2.445, 95%CI: 2.117~2.821) and hypoproteinemia(OR=1.997, 
95%CI: 1.533~2.580) were the independent influencing factors of postoperative 
pneumonia in patient with NSCLC. The area under the ROC curve (AUC) was 0.830.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of postoperative pneumonia in patients with NSCLC is 
relatively high and is influenced by a multitude of factors. The postoperative 
pneumonia risk prediction model developed in this study has demonstrated 
promising predictive performance. However, given the single-center design and 
limited sample size, additional clinical validation is necessary to confirm its 
practical applicability and reliability in real-world clinical settings.

Copyright © 2025 You, Chen, Liu, Zhang and Zheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2025.1564042
PMCID: PMC12256256
PMID: 40661779

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


75. Can Respir J. 2025 Jul 7;2025:7790381. doi: 10.1155/carj/7790381. eCollection
 2025.

Postinfectious Bronchiolitis Obliterans in Children.

Wan L(1), Wang Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, First People's Hospital of Jingzhou, Jingzhou, 
Hubei, China.

Bronchiolitis obliterans is a rare form of chronic obstructive lung disease, 
with postinfectious bronchiolitis obliterans being particularly prevalent in 
pediatric populations. The pathogenic investigations of pediatric postinfectious 
bronchiolitis obliterans predominantly center on adenovirus and Mycoplasma 
pneumoniae. Following the illness, children's lung function is impacted to 
varying extents; however, a definitive diagnosis relies on lung biopsy, which is 
not conducive to early detection and timely intervention. Consequently, there 
remains a need for novel research methodologies. This article synthesizes the 
2023 China Reformulation of the Expert Consensus on the Diagnosis and Treatment 
of Bronchiolitis Obliterans in Children along with recent studies, providing a 
comprehensive overview of early diagnosis, treatment modalities, and preventive 
strategies for postinfectious bronchiolitis obliterans in children. 
Additionally, it outlines future research directions aimed at enhancing 
pediatricians' understanding of this complex disease.

Copyright © 2025 Linfang Wan and Zhonghong Wang. Canadian Respiratory Journal 
published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1155/carj/7790381
PMCID: PMC12259327
PMID: 40661670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


76. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 May 25:2025.05.23.25328168. doi: 
10.1101/2025.05.23.25328168.

Exploring the Impact of Oral Health and Vaccination on Pneumonia-causing 
Bacteria: Insights from Predictive Modeling.

Whealy RN, Timm S, Furstenau TN, Roberts A, Maltinsky S, Wells S, Drake K, 
Ramirez K, Bolduc C, Ross A, Pearson T, Fofanov VY.

Nursing home acquired pneumonia (NHAP) is a leading cause of mortality in 
long-term care facilities (LTCFs). The primary mechanism of infection in older 
individuals is macro-aspiration of opportunistic pathogens colonizing the oral 
and nasal cavities. Pneumococcal vaccination is the primary preventative 
measure, but oral hygiene is increasingly explored as a strategy for reducing 
oral colonization. While promising, oral health interventions have shown mixed 
results, likely due to variation in the way that different NHAP-associated 
pathogens respond to these interventions. To test this, we analyzed oral health 
survey responses, pneumococcal vaccination status, and longitudinal colonization 
to identify factors linked to carriage of each pathogen. We found that oral 
hygiene impacted carriage of bacteria which more frequently colonized the oral 
cavity ( Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae ), but had limited 
effect on bacteria that were more prevalent in the anterior nares ( 
Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa ). Pneumococcal vaccination 
reduced oral colonization by both S. pneumoniae and H. influenzae , suggesting 
community level interactions. Our results suggest that oral hygiene 
interventions are likely to only be effective against pathogens that primarily 
colonize the oral cavity, underscoring the importance of identifying the primary 
reservoirs of NHAP-associated pathogens when developing effective intervention 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.05.23.25328168
PMCID: PMC12258750
PMID: 40661296


77. Scientifica (Cairo). 2025 Jul 1;2025:3951925. doi: 10.1155/sci5/3951925. 
eCollection 2025.

Antimicrobial Effect of Common Bacterial Pigments on Clinically Significant 
Microorganisms.

Salman A(1), Dhanashree B(1), Kotian H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Kasturba Medical College Mangalore, Manipal 
Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, India.
(2)Department of Community Medicine, Kasturba Medical College Mangalore, Manipal 
Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, India.

The aim of this research is to investigate the antimicrobial characteristics of 
bacterial pigments. Pigments are vibrant metabolites generated by bacteria, 
offering defence against radiation, sunlight, stress and competing 
microorganisms. Bacterial pigments have various applications in cosmetics, 
pharmaceuticals and food sectors due to their antimicrobial, anticancer and 
antioxidant properties. In this cross-sectional in vitro study, we used 30 
isolates each of Enterococcus faecalis, Klebsiella spp. and Candida spp. 
isolated from human urine, blood and pus samples to study the antimicrobial 
effect of pigments produced by Serratia marcescens (prodigiosin), 
Chromobacterium violaceum (violacein) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (pyocyanin). At 
the suitable pH and temperature, pigment-producing bacteria were mass-cultured 
in nutrient broth. Pigments were extracted from S. marcescens and C. violaceum 
cultures using acetone and methanol. Pyocyanin from P. aeruginosa was extracted 
by using hydrochloric acid and chloroform. Extracted pigments were dried and 
characterised by mass spectrometry. The antimicrobial activity of the crude 
pigments was determined by the agar dilution method using Muller Hinton agar 
(MHA) plates for bacterial isolates, and Sabouraud's Dextrose agar (SDA) for 
Candida spp. E. faecalis ATCC 29212, K. pneumonia ATCC 700603 and C. albicans 
ATCC 14053 were used as standards. The minimum concentration of the pigment that 
supressed the growth of microorganism on the MHA/SDA agar plate was considered 
as minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC). Data were analysed using the 
Chi-square statistical method. E. faecalis, which were resistant to teicoplanin, 
vancomycin, norfloxacin and penicillin, were found susceptible to pyocyanin (p < 
0.05). Multidrug-resistant Klebsiella spp. were susceptible to pyocyanin, 
violacein and prodigiosin (p < 0.05). Candida spp. resistant to caspofungin, 
micafungin, showed susceptibility to prodigiosin, and those isolates resistant 
to amphotericin B showed susceptibility to pyocyanin (p < 0.05). Among all 
clinical isolates, Klebsiella spp. from urine exhibited the highest resistance 
to the pigments studied. Among the pigments studied, violacein and prodigiosin 
exhibited superior antimicrobial and antifungal properties. Therefore, violacein 
and prodigiosin could serve as an alternative antimicrobial substance for 
addressing multidrug-resistant pathogenic microorganisms.

Copyright © 2025 Afroz Salman et al. Scientifica published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1155/sci5/3951925
PMCID: PMC12256167
PMID: 40661181

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


78. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2025 Jul 6;59(7):1022-1030. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112150-20250207-00091.

[Molecular epidemiological characteristics and risk factors analysis of 
Carbapenem-resistant Enterobacterales intestines colonization of neonates in 
Shenzhen region].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Yang HM(1), Cao K(2), Xiong ZL(3), Liu XC(3), Yang KY(3), He YX(3), Lin SX(3), 
Zou JH(3), Liu SY(3), Ding TY(3), Yin LF(4), Li ZX(5), Duan CH(6), Zhou ZW(3).

Author information:
(1)The First School of Clinical Medicine,Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang 
524001, China Department of Laboratory Medicine, Longgang District Maternity & 
Child Healthcare Hospital of Shenzhen City (Longgang Maternity and Child 
Institute of Shantou University Medical College), Shenzhen 518172, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Shenzhen Children's Hospital, Shenzhen 
518038, China.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Longgang District Maternity & Child 
Healthcare Hospital of Shenzhen City (Longgang Maternity and Child Institute of 
Shantou University Medical College), Shenzhen 518172, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine 
Shenzhen Hospital(Longgang), Shenzhen 518172, China.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Longgang District People's Hospital of 
Shenzhen City, Shenzhen 518172, China.
(6)The First School of Clinical Medicine,Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang 
524001, China Clinical Laboratory, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou 510120, China.

Objective: To study the risk factors and the molecular epidemiology 
characteristics for Carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae(CRE) colonization in 
neonatal inpatients in Shenzhen region, China, which provide reference for the 
prevention and control of clinical CRE infection. Methods: This study is a 
prospective case-control study.Anal samples from inpatients between January 2023 
and December 2023 at Longgang Maternity and Child Institute of Shantou 
University Medical College and Shenzhen Children's Hospital were collected for 
screening CRE strain. Drug susceptibility test, modified Carbapenem Inactivation 
Method (mCIM) test, drug resistance-related gene sequencing and multilocus 
sequence typing (MLST) were performed for isolated CRE strains.Meanwhile, the 
clinical data were collected for analyzing the risk factors of CRE intestinal 
colonization by multivariate regression analysis. Results: A total of 1 517 
patients were screened, 26 CRE(1.7%, 26/1 517) were identified which including 
14 Escherichia coli(53.8%, 14/26), 11 Klebsiella pneumoniae(42.3%, 11/26), 1 
Enterobacter cloacae(3.9%, 1/26). The predominant carbapenemase gene was New 
Delhi Metallo(NDM) (92.4%, 24/26), followed by Imipenem (IMP) (3.8%, 1/26) and 
Guiana extended spectrum gene (GES) (3.8%, 1/26).Among the carried NDM 
resistance genes, New Delhi Metallo 5 (NDM5) was the main one, accounting for 
84.6% (22/26).The MLST typing of Escherichia coli was mainly Sequence Type 48 
(ST48) (6/14), while that of Klebsiella pneumoniae was mainly Sequence Type 35 
(ST35) (10/11). All CRE isolates were resistant to penicillin, penicillinase 
inhibitors, cephalosporins, ertapenem and imipenem.The resistance rates of 
Escherichia coli to amikacin, levofloxacin was 1/14, 4/14, respectively. All 
isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae were sensitive to amikacin, and the resistance 
rate to levofloxacin is 1/11. Risk factors for CRE colonization include the 
older age, length of hospital stay, tracheal intubation, invasive respiration, 
lumbar puncture, Apgar <7 score, and exposure to antibiotics. Conclusions: NDM5 
is the predominant resistant gene in CRE isolated from neonatal patients feces 
in Shenzhen region.It is necessary to strengthen the screening of CRE 
colonization in neonate for prevention and control of CRE infection.

Publisher: 目的： 探讨深圳地区住院新生儿耐碳青霉烯类肠杆菌目细菌（carbapenem-resistant 
Enterobacteriaceae，CRE）的肠道定植情况和分子流行特征，分析其肠道定植的危险因素，为临床CRE感染防控提供参考。 方法： 
采用前瞻性病例对照研究。选择2023年1至12月在汕头大学医学院附属深圳妇儿医院（龙岗）和深圳市儿童医院住院的新生儿肛拭子标本进行CRE筛查，对筛查出的CRE菌株进行药敏试验、改良碳青霉烯类灭活试验（mCIM）试验、耐药基因检测、测序和多位点序列分型（MLST），同时收集新生儿临床资料，采用多因素回归分析，分析肠道定植CRE的风险因素。 
结果： 共筛查无重复肛拭子标本1 517例，筛查出CRE菌株26株，定植率为1.7%（26/1 
517），其中大肠埃希菌14株占53.8%（14/26），肺炎克雷伯菌11株占42.3%（11/26），阴沟肠杆菌1株占3.9%（1/26）。碳青霉烯酶耐药基因检出以携带新德里金属蛋白酶（New 
Delhi 
Metallo，NDM）为主占92.4%（24/26），其次为亚胺培南（IPM）和圭亚那超广谱酶（GES）均占3.8%（1/26），在携带的NDM耐药基因中主要为新德里金属蛋白酶5型（NDM5）占84.6%（22/26）。对大肠埃希菌和肺炎克雷伯菌进行MLST分型，大肠埃希菌以序列分型48型（ST48）为主占6/14，肺炎克雷伯菌以序列分型35型（ST35）为主占10/11。CRE菌株对青霉素类及青霉素类酶抑制剂、头孢菌素类抗生素、厄他培南、亚胺培南全部耐药。大肠埃希菌对阿米卡星、左氧氟沙星耐药率分别为1/14、4/14，肺炎克雷伯菌对左氧氟沙星的耐药率为1/11而对阿米卡星全部敏感。患儿年龄越大、住院时间越长、气管插管、有创呼吸、腰穿、Apgar评分<7分，曾使用β-内酰胺酶抑制剂、第三代头孢菌素类抗生素及两种或两种以上抗生素的联合使用是CRE定植的风险因素。 
结论： 深圳地区住院新生儿肠道携带CRE耐药基因以NDM5金属酶为主，其耐药形势严峻，需加强住院新生儿CRE定植的筛查，为新生儿CRE感染的防控提供预警。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112150-20250207-00091
PMID: 40661009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2025 Jul 15;105(26):2212-2217. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112137-20250118-00157.

[Association of capsular types with antibiotic resistance and clinical prognosis 
in Acinetobacter baumannii].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Jiang CY(1), Li HN(2), Li SG(1), Wang H(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Technology, Peking University Health Science Center, 
Beijing 100191, China Department of Clinical Laboratory, Peking University 
People's Hospital, Beijing 100044, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Peking University People's Hospital, 
Beijing 100044, China.

Objective: Analysis of antimicrobial resistance and clinical outcomes in 
patients infected with different KL types of Acinetobacter baumannii. Methods: 
This is a cross-sectional study. From 2011 to 2021, 675 non-repetitive A. 
baumannii strains were isolated from patients with bloodstream infection (BSI, 
234 cases), hospital acquired pneumonia (HAP, 423 cases), intra-abdominal 
infection (IAI, 17 cases) and urinary tract infection (UTI, 1 case) in 10 
hospitals across 8 provinces of China. KL types and resistance genes were 
identified using bioinformatics methods. The minimum inhibitory concentrations 
of different antibiotics against 675 A.baumannii strains were determined by agar 
or microbroth dilution method. Ten strains were randomly selected from each KL 
type using simple random sampling for whole blood survival experiments. 
Differences in hospitalization duration and clinical outcomes were analyzed 
among patients infected with different KL types. Results: The 675 patients were 
aged (59±20) years, including 460 males. The predominant KL types included KL2 
(22.0%, 149 strains), KL3 (17.5%, 118 strains), KL210 (7.0%, 47 strains) and 
KL160 (7.0%, 47 strains), while non-predominant KL types accounted for 314 
strains (46.5%). The four predominant KL types showed higher overall resistance 
rates to most antibiotics compared with non-predominant KL types (all P<0.05). 
KL2 (92.6%, 113 strains) showed higher resistance to 
sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim than KL3 (55.9%, 66 strains) (P<0.05). KL2 (87.2%, 
130 strains) and KL210 (91.5%, 43 strains) showed higher resistance to 
minocycline than KL3 (67.8%, 80 strains) and KL160 (66.0%, 31 strains) (all 
P<0.05). KL2 exhibited stronger whole blood survival capacity [(58.36±20.33)%] 
than other KL types (all P<0.05). The fatality rate of KL2-infected patients was 
30.9% (46 cases), higher than that of patients infected with KL3 (11.9%, 14 
cases) and KL210 (6.4%, 3 cases) (all P<0.05). The hospitalization duration 
[M(Q1,Q3)] of KL2-infected patients was 46.00 (26.50, 74.00) days, longer than 
that of patients infected with KL3 [30.00 (15.25, 40.75) days], KL210 [27.00 
(21.00, 44.00) days], KL160 [27.00 (20.00, 34.00) days] and non-predominant KL 
types [25.00 (12.00, 40.00) days] (all P<0.05). Conclusions: Different KL types 
of A.baumannii show variations in antimicrobial resistance and clinical outcomes 
of infected patients. KL2 demonstrates higher resistance rates and is associated 
with poorer clinical prognosis.

Publisher: 目的： 分析鲍曼不动杆菌（AB）各K抗原分型（KL）的耐药表型及感染患者临床预后情况。 方法： 
横断面研究。于2011—2021年从我国8个省份10家医院的血流感染（BSI，234例）、医院获得性肺炎（HAP，423例）、腹腔感染（IAI，17例）及尿路感染（UTI，1例）患者中分离出675株非重复AB，利用生物信息学方法鉴定其KL型别和耐药基因；采用琼脂或微量肉汤稀释法测定不同抗生素对675株AB的最低抑菌浓度；用简单随机抽样法从不同KL型别中各抽取10株菌进行全血存活实验；分析感染不同KL型别患者的住院时间和临床结局等差异。 
结果： 
675例患者的年龄为（59±20）岁，男性460例；流行KL型别包括KL2（22.0%，149株）、KL3（17.5%，118株）、KL210（7.0%，47株）和KL160（7.0%，47株），其余为非流行KL型别（46.5%，314株）。4种流行KL型别对多数抗生素的耐药率均高于非流行KL型别（均P<0.05），KL2型别（92.6%，113株）对磺胺甲噁唑+甲氧苄啶的耐药率高于KL3型别（55.9%，66株）（P<0.05）；KL2（87.2%，130株）和KL210型别（91.5%，43株）对米诺环素的耐药率高于KL3（67.8%，80株）和KL160型别（66.0%，31株）（均P<0.05）。KL2型别全血存活能力［（58.36±20.33）%］强于其他KL型别（均P<0.05）。KL2型别感染患者的病死率为30.9%（46例），高于感染KL3（11.9%，14例）及KL210型别（6.4%，3例）者（均P<0.05）。KL2型别感染患者的住院时间［M（Q1，Q3）］为46.00（26.50，74.00）d，长于感染KL3［30.00（15.25，40.75）d］、KL210［27.00（21.00，44.00）d］、KL160［27.00（20.00，34.00）d］以及非流行KL型别［25.00（12.00，40.00）d］者（均P<0.05）。 
结论： AB不同KL型别在耐药表型及感染患者临床预后方面存在差异，其中KL2型别的耐药率较高，且感染患者的临床预后不佳。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112137-20250118-00157
PMID: 40660976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Microbiologyopen. 2025 Aug;14(4):e70035. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.70035.

Discrimination of Klebsiella pneumoniae and Klebsiella quasipneumoniae by 
MALDI-TOF Mass Spectrometry Coupled With Machine Learning.

Nishikawa M(1), Tang W(2), Kostrzewa M(3), Rodgus J(4), Davies F(4)(5)(6), Liu 
Y(1), Jauneikaite E(4), Larrouy-Maumus G(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Natural Sciences, Department of Life Sciences, Centre for 
Bacterial Resistance Biology, Imperial College London, UK.
(2)Faculty of Natural Sciences, Department of Mathematics, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(3)Bruker Daltonics GmbH&Co. KG, Bremen, Germany.
(4)NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in Healthcare Associated Infections and 
Antimicrobial Resistance, Department of Infectious Disease, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(5)Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK.
(6)Department of Microbiology, North West London Pathology, London, UK.

Klebsiella species, including Klebsiella pneumoniae and Klebsiella 
quasipneumoniae, present significant challenges in clinical microbiology due to 
their genetic similarity, which complicates accurate species identification 
using established methods, including matrix-assisted laser 
desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) on the 
protein/peptide level. Although the treatment choice for infections caused by 
these pathogens is often similar, precise species characterization enhances our 
epidemiological understanding. While whole-genome sequencing can accurately 
distinguish Klebsiella species accurately, those analyses are time-consuming, 
requiring specialized expertise, and are not currently used in routine clinical 
laboratories. Therefore, developing a timely and accurate pathogen 
characterization method is essential for effective treatment, management, and 
infection control measures. This study combined MALDI-TOF MS in negative ion 
mode with machine learning techniques to identify potential lipid biomarkers as 
a novel method to distinguish between K. pneumoniae and K. quasipneumoniae. 
Using this method, we identified discriminative features between the species, 
with peaks at m/z 2157, m/z 1931, m/z 1964, m/z 2042, and m/z 1407 highlighted 
as potential biomarkers for species identification. Our findings suggest that 
the lipid profiles of the species obtained from MALDI-TOF MS can serve as 
effective biomarkers for distinguishing Klebsiella species. Further research 
should focus on the structural identification of these biomarkers and expand the 
data set to include more isolates for each of the species. This approach holds 
promise for developing more cost-effective and rapid diagnostic tools in 
clinical microbiology, ultimately improving patient outcomes and infection 
control.

© 2025 The Author(s). MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.70035
PMID: 40660849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Nephrology (Carlton). 2025 Jul;30(7):e70093. doi: 10.1111/nep.70093.

Coronavirus Disease 2019 Vaccination Booster Effectiveness Based on the 2022 
Japanese Dialysis Registry.

Sugawara Y(1), Iwagami M(2), Sakurai Y(1), Kikuchi K(3), Nangaku M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Endocrinology, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Health Services Research, Institute of Medicine, University of 
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(3)Division of Nephrology, Shimoochiai Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.

AIM: To evaluate the effectiveness of the third, fourth, and fifth booster doses 
(rolled out in December 2021, June 2022, and October 2022, respectively) of the 
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccine in Japanese haemodialysis patients 
during the Omicron era.
METHODS: We analysed the Japanese Society for Dialysis Therapy Renal Data 
Registry (JRDR) year-end survey data from 2021 to 2022, which included 
information on the number of vaccinations and the most recent vaccination and 
infection months. For each month of 2022, the COVID-19 infection and related 
mortality risks were calculated by vaccination status, followed by logistic 
regression analyses to estimate adjusted odds ratios (aORs).
RESULTS: Overall, 225 887 patients were analysed, including 13 440 (5.9%), 
25 547 (11.3%), 64 242 (28.4%), and 122 658 (54.3%) with ≤ 2, 3, 4, and 5 doses 
at the end of 2022, respectively. The third dose was significantly correlated 
with a lower risk of COVID-19 infection in early 2022 (March: aOR 0.53 
[0.43-0.64]; April: 0.77 [0.63-0.95]) but was associated with a higher risk 
during mid-2022, coinciding with the BA.1/2 to BA.5 transition (July: 1.65 
[1.39-1.95]; August: 2.37 [2.06-2.71]). The third dose consistently correlated 
with reduced COVID-19-related mortality. The fourth and fifth doses correlated 
with lower infection risk and COVID-19-related mortality throughout the period.
CONCLUSION: Among Japanese haemodialysis patients, the third to fifth COVID-19 
vaccine doses were associated with reduced infection risk (except in July and 
August for third doses) and mortality.

© 2025 The Author(s). Nephrology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd 
on behalf of Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1111/nep.70093
PMID: 40660740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Medicine (Baltimore). 2025 Jul 11;104(28):e43141. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000043141.

Study on rehabilitation effect of continuous nursing on patients with dysphagia 
in acute cerebral infarction.

Xu C(1), Zhan T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Wuhan Fourth Hospital, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.
(2)Emergency Department, Wuhan Fourth Hospital, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.

This study aims to investigate the impact of continuous care on the 
rehabilitation outcomes of patients with acute cerebral infarction accompanied 
by dysphagia. This retrospective study involved 119 patients with acute cerebral 
infarction and dysphagia admitted to Wuhan No. 4 Hospital from June 2022 to 
December 2023. Patients were divided into an experimental group (n = 56) 
receiving standard care plus continuous care, and a control group (n = 63) 
receiving standard care alone. Continuous care included follow-up calls, home 
visits, health education, and personalized rehabilitation. Outcomes assessed 
included swallowing function, Barthel Index, quality of life (SF-36, 
Stroke-Specific Quality of Life), medication adherence, mental health, 
complications, and readmission rates. In the experimental group, swallowing 
function scores increased from 3.1 ± 1.2 at baseline to 5.0 ± 0.7 at 6 months, 
while the control group increased from 3.4 ± 1.3 to 4.2 ± 0.8 (P < .05). The 
Barthel Index in the experimental group improved from 40.5 ± 10.3 to 85.3 ± 10.7 
at 6 months, compared to an increase from 41.2 ± 9.8 to 78.5 ± 12.3 in the 
control group (P < .05). SF-36 scores in the experimental group rose from 
60.5 ± 8.1 to 75.0 ± 6.5, while the control group increased from 61.2 ± 7.9 to 
68.0 ± 6.8 (P < .05). The Stroke-Specific Quality of Life scores in the 
experimental group increased from 100.5 ± 15.3 to 130.2 ± 10.9 at 6 months, 
whereas the control group increased from 101.2 ± 14.9 to 120.5 ± 12.5 (P < .05). 
Medication adherence significantly improved in the experimental group, with the 
proportion of highly adherent patients increasing from 42.9% to 80.4% 
(P < .001), compared to an increase from 41.1% to 62.5% in the control group 
(P = .02). The incidence of aspiration pneumonia significantly lower than the 
control group (P = .02). The readmission rate was 14.3% in the experimental 
group, significantly lower than 30.4% in the control group (P = .002). 
Additionally, anxiety and depression scores in the experimental group were 
significantly reduced (P < .001). Continuous care significantly improves 
swallowing function, activities of daily living, and mental health in patients 
with acute cerebral infarction and dysphagia. It also reduces complications and 
readmission rates, demonstrating substantial clinical value.

Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000043141
PMCID: PMC12263028
PMID: 40660601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no funding and conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


83. Medicine (Baltimore). 2025 Jul 11;104(28):e43333. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000043333.

Successful treatment of long-COVID postural tachycardia syndrome with 
epipharyngeal abrasive therapy in an adolescent patient: A case report.

Takezawa H(1).

Author information:
(1)Takezawa ENT Clinic, Obihiro, Hokkaido, Japan.

RATIONALE: Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is a type of 
autonomic dysfunction that can occur following coronavirus disease (COVID-19) 
infection, particularly in adolescents. Treatment options are limited and often 
ineffective. We report a case of long COVID-associated POTS that responded 
favorably to epipharyngeal abrasive therapy (EAT), a treatment targeting chronic 
inflammation in the epipharynx.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A previously healthy adolescent developed persistent fatigue, 
headache, dizziness, insomnia, and orthostatic intolerance lasting over 3 months 
after a COVID-19 infection. The symptoms severely impaired daily functioning, 
rendering the patient bedridden.
DIAGNOSES: Based on clinical symptoms and a positive orthostatic test showing 
excessive postural tachycardia without hypotension, the patient was diagnosed 
with POTS associated with long COVID. Chronic epipharyngitis was also noted upon 
endoscopic examination.
INTERVENTIONS: The patient underwent weekly sessions of EAT for a total of 120 
days. No additional pharmacologic treatment was provided during this period.
OUTCOMES: The patient showed marked improvement in symptoms, including increased 
tolerance to standing, reduced fatigue, and improved sleep quality. Objective 
improvement was confirmed through repeat orthostatic testing. The patient 
resumed school attendance and daily activities without limitation.
LESSONS: This case highlights the potential effectiveness of EAT in treating 
long COVID-related POTS in adolescents. EAT may offer a nonpharmacological 
treatment option by addressing underlying chronic epipharyngeal inflammation, a 
possible contributor to autonomic dysfunction.

Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000043333
PMCID: PMC12262939
PMID: 40660536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author has no funding and conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


84. Medicine (Baltimore). 2025 Jul 11;104(28):e43102. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000043102.

COVID-19 vaccination status and the risk of developing lung diseases: A 
Mendelian randomization study.

Niu D(1), Song M(2), Chen M(3), Wu X(3), Zhang Y(4), Zhou R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Nantong Third People's Hospital, 
Affiliated Nantong Hospital 3 of Nantong University, Nantong, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Shanghai Eighth People's Hospital, 
Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Shanghai Sixth People's 
Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, China.
(4)Eye Institute, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Medical School of 
Nantong University, Nantong, Jiangsu, China.

Recent studies have suggested an increased incidence of various lung diseases 
following COVID-19 vaccination. However, causal relationships have not been 
definitively established. We conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) 
study using publicly available genome-wide association study data to investigate 
potential causal relationships between COVID-19 vaccination status as the 
exposure and 14 different lung diseases as outcomes. The analytical methods 
included random-effects inverse-variance weighting, MR Egger, and weighted 
median, with additional heterogeneity and sensitivity analyses. Seven 
instrumental variables for exposure were selected (P < 5 × 10-8). MR analyses 
revealed that COVID-19 vaccination status was not associated with an increased 
risk of developing overall lung cancer (P = .78), lung adenocarcinoma 
(P = .557), squamous cell lung cancer (P = .557), non-small cell lung cancer 
(P = .173), asthma (P = .905), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
bronchiectasis (P = .669), forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume 
in 1 second/FVC (P = .794), pneumonia (P = .282), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis 
(P = .486), pulmonary embolism (P = .267), pneumothorax (P = .73), or 
sarcoidosis (P = .732). Evidence of heterogeneity was observed in the 
inverse-variance weighting model for overall lung cancer, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, and FVC, whereas no indications of horizontal pleiotropy or 
significant heterogeneity were noted for other lung diseases. COVID-19 
vaccination does not appear to increase the risk of developing various lung 
diseases. These findings support the safety of COVID-19 vaccines in terms of 
respiratory health, reinforcing their role in public health interventions and 
vaccination policies.

Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000043102
PMCID: PMC12263066
PMID: 40660535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no funding and conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


85. Medicine (Baltimore). 2025 Jul 11;104(28):e43121. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000043121.

Severe pneumonia caused by Legionella pneumophila associated with Tropheryma 
whipplei: A case report.

Jin D(1), Li F(1), Fang J(1), Wang J(2), Li ST(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Chengdu Sixth People's Hospital, Chengdu, China.
(2)Department of Pulmonology, Chengdu Sixth People's Hospital, Chengdu, China.

RATIONALE: Legionella pneumophila (LP) and Tropheryma whipplei (TW) have been 
identified as pathogens that can coexist in sewage environments, which can both 
cause pneumophila and can impact various organs, leading to extrapulmonary 
manifestations. It is rare to find literature on pneumonia caused by atypical 
pathogens, such as the combination of LP and TW. There are no reports on 
specific drug treatments for such combined infections.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old male with no underlying diseases developed 
community-acquired pneumonia. His condition worsened after empirical treatment 
with piperacillin/tazobactam. He subsequently experienced adverse drug reactions 
after using moxifloxacin.
DIAGNOSES: Pulmonary infection, pulmonary bullae.
INTERVENTIONS: After admission, the patient was treated with 
piperacillin/tazobactam and moxifloxacin for anti-infection. He also underwent a 
bronchoscopy of the lungs, and the alveolar lavage fluid was tested using 
targeted next-generation sequencing. The results identified pathogens such as LP 
and TW. The anti-infection regimen was then adjusted to a combination of 
ceftriaxone and levofloxacin. Symptomatic treatments were also provided, 
including expectorant therapy, liver protection, and nutritional support.
OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged after showing signs of improvement and was 
subsequently monitored at an outpatient clinic.
LESSONS: When empirical antibiotic therapy for pneumonia is ineffective, 
infections caused by atypical pathogens should be considered. To prevent 
progression to severe pneumonia and even patient death, the precise use of 
antibiotics is beneficial for improving patient outcomes. However, the diagnosis 
of atypical pathogens is challenging, and the selection of drugs also needs to 
be considered from multiple aspects.

Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000043121
PMCID: PMC12263043
PMID: 40660514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no funding and conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


86. Hereditas. 2025 Jul 14;162(1):128. doi: 10.1186/s41065-025-00500-w.

Insight into the shared pathogenic link between COVID-19 and pterygium: a 
systematic bioinformatics analysis with experimental validation.

Zhou T(#)(1)(2), Cai X(#)(3), Shi W(3), Ding X(4)(5), Cai Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University School of Medicine, 639 Zhi-Zao-Ju Road, Huangpu District, 
Shanghai, 200011, China.
(2)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Orbital Diseases and Ocular Oncology, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Shanghai Ninth People's 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 639 Zhi-Zao-Ju Road, 
Huangpu District, Shanghai, 200011, China.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University School of Medicine, 639 Zhi-Zao-Ju Road, Huangpu District, 
Shanghai, 200011, China. abcdingxia@126.com.
(5)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Orbital Diseases and Ocular Oncology, Shanghai, 
China. abcdingxia@126.com.
(6)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Shanghai Ninth People's 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 639 Zhi-Zao-Ju Road, 
Huangpu District, Shanghai, 200011, China. 1917@sjtu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

The outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has resulted in a remarkable 
threat to global public health over the past few years. Despite the tremendous 
studies of COVID-19 ongoing, few have focused on the viral impact on the ocular 
surface. As one of the most common inflammatory diseases of the ocular surface, 
pterygium could be triggered under multiple environmental exposures. In the 
present work, we aimed at investigating the potential interactions between 
pterygium and COVID-19. Based on bioinformatic tools, we compared databases of 
COVID-19 and pterygium and screened for common differentially expressed genes 
(DEGs). Multifactor regulatory network and co-expression network of the common 
DEGs were analyzed. In vitro experiments, including siRNA knockdown using human 
conjunctival fibroblasts (HConFs) confirmed the bioinformatics results. Gene 
Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment 
analysis implied that immune response was associated with COVID-19-induced 
ocular events. We then identified five common DEGs, including ERP27, SYTL5, 
STXBP6, EXTL1 and DIO2, which was further validated by in vitro experiments. 
Three hub genes were further extracted which included SYTL5, STXBP6 and ERP27 
through protein-protein interactions (PPI) network. Furthermore, we illustrated 
a regulatory network consisting of eight transcription factors (STAT6B, GATA1, 
POU2F2, PGR, RBPJ, STAT3, CRTC1 and HMGA1) and one microRNA (hsa-miR-384). 
Overall, we investigated the common link between SARS-CoV-2 and pterygium in the 
modulation of gene profiles on the ocular surface. Our study proposed a novel 
insight into the common pathogenic mechanisms between COVID-19 and pterygium, 
which are associated with immune dysregulation and pathological proliferation, 
indicating a viral impact on pterygium susceptibility. This innovative 
perspective may enable a more comprehensive understanding and advance towards 
improved clinical prevention and treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s41065-025-00500-w
PMCID: PMC12261744
PMID: 40660393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


87. Eur J Med Res. 2025 Jul 14;30(1):619. doi: 10.1186/s40001-025-02896-7.

Optimization of pathogen detection in abscess specimens: a 6-year retrospective 
study.

Feng Q(1), Ha X(1), Guo W(2), Xing Y(1), Zhang J(1), Zhang C(1), Zhang Q(1), 
Song Y(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, the 940Th Hospital of Joint Logistics 
Support Force of People's Liberation Army, Lanzhou, 730050, China.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine-Cardiovascular, the 940Th Hospital of Joint 
Logistics Support Force of People's Liberation Army, Lanzhou, 730050, China.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, the 940Th Hospital of Joint Logistics 
Support Force of People's Liberation Army, Lanzhou, 730050, China. 
fqs328@163.com.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine-Cardiovascular, the 940Th Hospital of Joint 
Logistics Support Force of People's Liberation Army, Lanzhou, 730050, China. 
fqs328@163.com.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to evaluate the impact of optimized diagnostic 
protocols on pathogen detection rates in abscess specimens.
METHODS: Our retrospective study analyzed 1,297 abscess specimens collected 
between 2018 and 2024 using an enhanced diagnostic protocol combining four key 
methodologies: routine aerobic/anaerobic culture, gram-stain microscopy, 
acid-fast bacilli staining, and blood culture bottle enrichment techniques.
RESULTS: The implementation of optimized diagnostic protocols significantly 
enhanced pathogen detection efficacy (P < 0.001, χ = 9.663), achieving an 
overall positivity rate of 81.9% (1,062/1,297)-a 20.1 percentage point 
improvement over conventional methods. Among culture-positive specimens, 
polymicrobial infections were identified in 27.6% of cases (293/1,062). A total 
of 1,651 microbial isolates were recovered, dominated by gram-negative bacteria 
(50.6%, 836/1,651) with Escherichia coli (55.0%), Klebsiella pneumoniae (23.0%), 
and Acinetobacter baumannii (4.0%) as predominant species. Gram-positive cocci 
accounted for 33.7% (557/1,651), primarily Streptococcus spp. 
(45.0%), Staphylococcus aureus (19.0%), and Enterococcus faecium (6.0%). 
Enhanced methodology detected 261 additional pathogens (20.1% of total yield), 
including anaerobes (33.7%), smear-positive organisms (32.2%), acid-fast bacilli 
(6.9%), and Brucella melitensis (1.5%). Anatomic distribution analysis revealed 
perianal abscesses (358 cases, 407 isolates) predominantly associated with E. 
coli (51.8%), K. pneumoniae (14.7%), and Streptococcus spp. (15.7%), followed by 
maxillofacial infections (244 cases, 297 isolates; 18.0%). Other significant 
sites included abdominal abscesses/peritonitis (17.0%), hepatic abscesses 
(5.2%), and Periappendicular abscess (5.5%).
CONCLUSIONS: Systematic optimization of diagnostic protocols significantly 
enhanced pathogen detection in abscess specimens, demonstrating substantial 
clinical utility for infectious disease management. These findings support the 
adoption of comprehensive, standardized approaches for abscess specimen 
processing.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40001-025-02896-7
PMCID: PMC12261717
PMID: 40660369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study was approved by the 940th Hospital Committee for Medical 
and Health Research Ethics. The Ethics Committee waived the need for informed 
consent, as this was an observational study, the treatment of the patients was 
standard, and no samples were taken for the study. Consent for publication: All 
authors agree to publish articles in the journal. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


88. Ital J Pediatr. 2025 Jul 15;51(1):225. doi: 10.1186/s13052-025-02072-x.

Association of meteorological factors with childhood pneumonia incidence in 
Central Gondar Zone, Northwest Ethiopia: a time-series study (2013-2022).

Demoze L(1), Yitageasu G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety, Institute of 
Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Gondar, 
Gondar, Ethiopia. lidetudemoze12@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety, Institute of 
Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Gondar, 
Gondar, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Childhood pneumonia remains a significant clinical and public health 
challenge, contributing to substantial morbidity and mortality in under five 
years of age, including Ethiopia. Despite efforts to reduce its impact, 
childhood pneumonia persists as a leading cause of death in young children, 
particularly in low-resource settings. This study investigates the association 
between childhood pneumonia incidence and meteorological factors in the Central 
Gondar Zone, northwest Ethiopia, from January 2013 to December 2022.
METHODS: Institution based time-series cross-sectional study design was 
conducted in Central Gondar Zone, Northwest Ethiopia. Data on childhood 
pneumonia cases were obtained from the Central Gondar Zone Health Department and 
Gondar Administrative Health Department. Meteorological data, including 
temperature, rainfall, and relative humidity, were sourced from the West Amhara 
Meteorology Agency. Spearman correlation, bivariate negative binomial, and 
multivariable negative binomial regressions were employed to analyze the 
relationship between childhood pneumonia incidence and meteorological factors.
RESULTS: The findings reveal a consistent increase in childhood pneumonia 
incidence during the study period. Specifically, there is a significant inverse 
association between mean monthly temperature and the incidence of childhood 
pneumonia, indicating a higher incidence during the cooler month. In contrast, 
mean monthly rainfall demonstrates a positive association with childhood 
pneumonia incidence, suggesting increased incidence following periods of higher 
rainfall. However, no significant association was observed between relative 
humidity and childhood pneumonia incidence.
CONCLUSIONS: These results underscore the complex interplay between 
meteorological factors and childhood pneumonia incidence, with implications for 
public health interventions and climate adaptation strategies in Ethiopia. 
Understanding these associations can inform targeted interventions to mitigate 
the impact of childhood pneumonia, particularly in climate-vulnerable regions.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13052-025-02072-x
PMCID: PMC12261828
PMID: 40660351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Ethical clearance was obtained from research and ethical review 
committee of Institution of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, University of Gondar on April 06, 2023 (Ref No/IPH/2707/2023). A 
support letter was obtained from the Department of Environmental and 
Occupational Health and Safety for the required data to Central Gondar Zone 
health department and Ethiopia Statistical Service. To ensure the 
confidentiality of data, it was kept secure and the data was not used for other 
purposes. Consent for publication: This manuscript does not contain any 
individual person’s data. Competing Interests: The authors declare that the 
research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest. 
Patient and public involvement: There was no patient and public involvement in 
this study.


89. Popul Health Metr. 2025 Jul 14;23(Suppl 2):39. doi:
10.1186/s12963-025-00390-0.

Socio-economic inequalities in all-cause mortality during the COVID-19 period in 
north-western Tanzania, 2018-2021.

Kagoye SA(1)(2), Mangya C(3)(4), Konje E(4), Todd J(5), Kabudula C(6), Bashingwa 
J(6), Materu J(3)(4), Kishamawe C(3), Boerma T(7), Marston M(5), Urassa M(3).

Author information:
(1)Mwanza Research Centre, National Institute for Medical Research, Mwanza, 
Tanzania. sophyadam90@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Catholic University of Health 
and Allied Sciences, Mwanza, Tanzania. sophyadam90@gmail.com.
(3)Mwanza Research Centre, National Institute for Medical Research, Mwanza, 
Tanzania.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Catholic University of Health 
and Allied Sciences, Mwanza, Tanzania.
(5)Department of Population Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine (LSHTM), London, UK.
(6)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit 
(Agincourt), Faculty of Health Sciences, School of Public Health, University of 
the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(7)Community Health Science, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Evidence suggests that the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated social 
and demographic inequalities in the communities through pathways of unequal 
exposure, vulnerability, and susceptibility. In Tanzania, evidence on 
COVID-19-related mortality is limited to health facility data, with little to no 
information on the mortality patterns in the general population. This study 
assessed sociodemographic inequalities in all-cause mortality during the 
COVID-19 period in north-western Tanzania.
METHODS: We utilized available longitudinal data from the Magu Health and 
Demographic Surveillance System (HDSS) from January 2018 to December 2021. We 
compared the crude death rates between subgroups of age, sex, area of residence, 
and wealth index for a period before (2018/2019) and during (2020/2021) the 
COVID-19 pandemic. To quantify how mortality risk varies across the subgroups we 
fitted a Cox proportional hazard model with an interaction of the COVID-19 
period.
RESULTS: Overall mortality declined from 5.9 in 2018/2019 to 5.4 and 5.5 deaths 
per 1000 person-years in 2020 and 2021, respectively. We observed an increase in 
differences in crude death rates by age groups, area of residence, and wealth 
quintiles during the COVID-19 period. In the Cox proportional hazards model, 
compared to adults aged 15-49, we observed greater mortality risk in children 
under five (AHR:2.9; 95%CI: 2.2-3.9), older individuals aged 50-64 years 
(AHR:3.02; 95%CI:2.11-4.33) and 65 + (AHR:18.65; 95%CI:14.28-24.35) during 
COVID-19 period. Males were also at greater risk of death compared to females 
(AHR:1.30; 95%CI:1.06-1.59).
CONCLUSION: Despite the overall mortality decline during the pandemic, we 
observed an increased risk of mortality among vulnerable subgroups 
(aged < 5 years and > 60 years) in the population. This highlights the need to 
take into account vulnerable subpopulations when addressing major public health 
issues in communities.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12963-025-00390-0
PMCID: PMC12261527
PMID: 40660241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Permission to conduct this study was obtained from the Medical 
Research Coordinating Committee in Tanzania with ethical clearance number 
NIMR/HQ/R.8c/Vol. I/1496 and from Catholic University of Health of Health and 
Allied Sciences Bugando Research and Ethical Committee (CREC) with ethical 
clearance number CREC/580/2022. Informed consent was obtained for participants 
aged 18 and above, and assent was obtained from minors. Unique identification 
numbers were used to identify study participants. Confidentiality was adhered to 
during the data process and analysis. Competing interests: The authors declare 
that they have no competing interests.


90. BMC Public Health. 2025 Jul 14;25(1):2448. doi: 10.1186/s12889-025-23597-0.

Association between Adverse Childhood Events (ACEs) and long-term COVID-19 
symptoms: evidence from the 2022 behavioral risk factor surveillance system.

Elkefi S(1)(2), Steffen A(3), Matthews AK(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Columbia University, New York, USA. 
safaelkefi.research@gmail.com.
(2)Systems Science and Industrial Engineering, Watson College, Binghamton 
University, New York, USA. safaelkefi.research@gmail.com.
(3)School of Nursing, University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, USA.
(4)School of Nursing, Columbia University, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the association between Adverse Childhood 
Events (ACEs) and long-term COVID-19 symptoms.
METHODS: We used data from the 2022 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. 
Multivariable logistic regression was used to assess the association between 
long-term COVID symptoms and ACEs, adjusting for demographic characteristics 
(race/ethnicity, age, and sex). Survey weights were applied.
RESULTS: Of the 14,560 participants, 46.73% experienced 1-3 ACEs, and 26.81% 
experienced 4 + ACEs-23.38% experienced long-term COVID-19 symptoms. Blacks 
(OR = 0.76, P =.002) and Asians (OR = 0.56, P =.009) were less likely than 
Whites to experience long-term COVID-19, but American Indians (OR = 1.72) were 
more likely. Adults aged 35-69 had a higher likelihood of long-term symptoms 
than younger adults (OR = 1.24), whereas those aged 70 or older did not differ 
from younger adults. Females were also more likely to experience them 
(OR = 1.61). Exposure to ACEs was positively associated with long-term COVID-19 
symptoms. The more adverse events individuals were exposed to, the more risk of 
long-term COVID-19. Specifically, experience of household substance abuse 
(OR = 1.14, 95%, P =.008), physical abuse (OR = 1.18, 95%, P =.001), emotional 
abuse (OR = 1.13, 95%, P =.014), sexual abuse (OR = 1.43, 95%, P <.001), and 
household mental illness (OR = 1.35, 95%, P <.001) were positively associated 
with the long-term COVID-19 experience.
CONCLUSIONS: Study findings contribute to the extensive literature demonstrating 
the negative health consequences of childhood adversities. More adverse events 
resulted in more risk to experience long term COVID-19 symptoms. Additional 
research is needed to better understand and intervene in the biological 
vulnerabilities associated with childhood adversities.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-025-23597-0
PMID: 40660201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This is a secondary data analysis so no IRB is needed in accordance 
with the Declaration of Helsinki. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


91. BMC Public Health. 2025 Jul 14;25(1):2444. doi: 10.1186/s12889-025-23591-6.

Post-COVID gambling habits of adolescents and young adults in Aragon, Spain: a 
cross-sectional study.

Barceló-Soler A(1)(2)(3), Armas-Landaeta C(4), Pérez-Aranda A(5)(6), 
Monreal-Bartolomé A(1)(2)(3), Beltrán-Ruiz M(1)(3), Cabrera-Gil I(1)(3), 
Camarero-Grados L(1), García-Campayo J(2)(3)(4), López-Del-Hoyo Y(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Sociology, University of Zaragoza, Saragossa, 
Spain.
(2)Research Network on Chronicity, Primary Care and Health Promotion (RICAPPS), 
Saragossa, Spain.
(3)Institute of Health Research of Aragon, Saragossa, Spain.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, University of Zaragoza, Saragossa, Spain.
(5)Department of Clinical and Health Psychology, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, Barcelona, Spain. adrian.perez@uab.cat.
(6)CIBER of Epidemiology and Public Health (CIBERESP), Madrid, Spain. 
adrian.perez@uab.cat.
(7)Department of Psychology and Sociology, University of Zaragoza, Saragossa, 
Spain. yolandal@unizar.es.
(8)Research Network on Chronicity, Primary Care and Health Promotion (RICAPPS), 
Saragossa, Spain. yolandal@unizar.es.
(9)Institute of Health Research of Aragon, Saragossa, Spain. yolandal@unizar.es.

BACKGROUND: Gambling has become increasingly normalized in Spain, with 49.3% of 
the population participating and high engagement among youth, particularly 
online. Despite legal restrictions, some studies have reported that over 20% of 
adolescents aged 14-19 reported gambling in 2022. These findings raise concerns 
about gambling disorder, which affects 4.7% of Spanish youth and is linked to 
other mental health problems. Factors such as advertising and the COVID-19 
pandemic may have contributed to this trend. This study, part of the GAMBL-OUT 
project, examines gambling behaviors among young people in Aragon, Spain, 
focusing on prevalence, advertising exposure, post-COVID vs. pre-pandemic 
comparisons, and factors associated with problem gambling, while comparing high 
school and university students.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted between November 2023 and March 
2024 with 617 participants aged 16-25 from high schools, vocational centers, and 
universities. Measures included sociodemographic variables, gambling behaviors, 
advertising exposure, and psychological constructs. Standardized tools included 
the Problem Gambling Severity Index, Gambling Related Cognitions Scale, Gambling 
Motives Questionnaire, and UPPS-P Impulsive Behavior Scale.
RESULTS: Nearly 60% of participants had gambled, 78.4% of whom had done so in 
the past 12 months. The overall prevalence of problem gambling in our sample was 
3.5%. Among university students, 64.6% had gambled and 3.4% showed signs of 
problem gambling, which does not represent a significant increase compared to 
2019 data. University students post-COVID reported significantly lower exposure 
to gambling advertisements and less knowledge of betting venues and websites, 
despite stable levels of preventive information. Although lifetime gambling 
increased (65.3% vs. 58.1%), riskier behaviors such as sports betting, online 
gambling, and microtransactions decreased. University students showed greater 
gambling participation and online awareness, while high school students showed 
higher impulsivity and stronger gambling intentions. Regression analyses 
identified enhancement motives, predictive control, negative urgency, and peer 
influence as factors associated with problem gambling.
CONCLUSIONS: Gambling remains a prevalent issue among youth in Aragon, with 
problem gambling rates stable over time. Despite reduced advertising exposure, 
the normalization of gambling persists. Findings support the need for 
age-specific, psychologically informed interventions addressing both individual 
vulnerabilities and social contexts.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-025-23591-6
PMID: 40660173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The Research Ethics Committee of the Autonomous Community of Aragón 
(CEICA) evaluated and approved the study protocol in June 2023 (PI22/406). All 
study participants signed an informed consent. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


92. BMC Public Health. 2025 Jul 14;25(1):2457. doi: 10.1186/s12889-025-23411-x.

The promotion mechanism of physical and mental health of the elderly in China: 
the impact of the digital divide and social capital.

Xiang J(1), Xing H(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Law, Hohai University, Nanjing, 211100, China. jiaxiang@hhu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Law, Hohai University, Nanjing, 211100, China.

With the deep integration of population aging and digital transformation, the 
society has benefit from digital dividend, while also giving rise to the issue 
of the aging population's digital divide.This study is based on the three-level 
digital divide theory analysis framework, concentrating on the impact of the 
digital divide on elderly people's health during the Covid-19 pandemic in China, 
conducts multiple regression analysis, and uses the instrumental variable method 
and PSM propensity matching for robustness testing. Constructs a multiple 
mediation model of digital skill-social capital-elderly health, and applies 
Bootstrap-based structural equation model(SEM) to analyze and examine the 
influencing mechanism and pathway of digital skill on elderly people's physical 
and mental health. The research results indicate that: (1) From self-rated 
health, physical health, and mental health three aspects, digital skill 
significantly promotes elderly people's health, moreover, the elderly health is 
negatively impacted by the digital divide. (2) Among the elderly, their physical 
and psychological health are linked by a "cyclic cumulative causal effect". (3) 
The effect of digital skill on elderly people's health exists urban-rural 
difference. (4) A mediating effect of social capital in the connection between 
digital skill and elderly people's health. Digital skill enhances the state of 
elderly people's health by enriching relational and structural social capital, 
and aged adults' health is negatively impacted by a reduction in cognitive 
social capital. Therefore, in the future, it is necessary to fully leverage the 
health promotion function of digital skill, broaden senior citizens' social 
network, promote their social participation, bridge the senior citizens' digital 
divide, so then realize healthy aging and sustainable development.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-025-23411-x
PMCID: PMC12261863
PMID: 40660167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Research ethics approval for data collection in the Chinese General 
Social Survey (CGSS) dataset was granted by the Institutional Review Board of 
Renmin University, PR China. Prior to conducting the study, a voluntary informed 
consent form has been obtained from the study participants. The research content 
and purpose are within the scope of standardized informed consent.This study 
conducted research using anonymized information data. This study does not cause 
harm to the human body and does not involve sensitive personal information or 
commercial interests. Based on this, this study complies with the basic 
principles of the Helsinki Declaration and meets the ethical exemption 
requirements of the “Ethical Review Measures for Research Involving Human Life 
Sciences and Medical Sciences” issued by China, which can exempt ethical review. 
We used the public data of CGSS, no additional ethics approval was needed. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


93. BMC Prim Care. 2025 Jul 14;26(1):225. doi: 10.1186/s12875-025-02917-8.

Enhanced crisis resilience of general practitioner-centred care: a retrospective 
cohort study of patients with coronary artery disease during the COVID-19 
pandemic in Germany.

Friedmacher C(1), Lemke D(2), Klaaßen-Mielke R(3), Glushan A(2), Müller A(2), 
Karimova K(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of General Practice, Goethe University Frankfurt, Theodor-Stern-Kai 
7, Frankfurt, 60590, Germany. c.friedmacher@allgemeinmedizin.uni-frankfurt.de.
(2)Institute of General Practice, Goethe University Frankfurt, Theodor-Stern-Kai 
7, Frankfurt, 60590, Germany.
(3)Department of Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, Ruhr University 
Bochum, Bochum, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Structured, comprehensive provision of primary care services has 
been shown to provide better outcomes in chronic disease management. In 2004, 
Germany introduced a programme of general practitioner (GP)-centred healthcare 
to strengthen the primary care sector. Crises such as pandemics, world conflict 
and climate events can result in significant challenges for the provision of 
routine healthcare requiring rapid reorganisation of existing models of care 
provision. The objective of this study was to assess the impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic on the provision of chronic disease surveillance services and the 
treatment of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) by GPs in the federal 
state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany over the years 2019-2020 to examine if the 
previously demonstrated benefits of GPCC participation were maintained 
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.
METHODS: Retrospective cohort study monitoring 170,466 CAD patients, conducted 
using biannually aggregated German insurance claims data (AOK-BaWü), comparing 
2019 (pre-pandemic) with 2020 (COVID-19 pandemic), examining access (contacts), 
therapy (e.g. statin therapy), and clinical outcomes (acute myocardial 
infarction, angina pectoris, stroke, invasive procedures and 
pacemaker/defibrillator).
RESULTS: Patients enrolled in the GP-centred care programme (GPCC) had more 
frequent cohort-specific contacts, increasing during the pandemic, compared to 
those receiving standard care. Statin prescriptions were higher in the GPCC 
group and appear to be maintained over the study period. GPCC participation has 
demonstrated lower risks of all listed clinical outcomes in comparison to 
standard care and these established advantages of GPCC participation with 
respect to clinical outcomes were maintained during 2020 despite the challenges 
of the COVID-19 pandemic.
CONCLUSION: Structured, comprehensive GP-centred care in Germany demonstrated 
resilience the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic and was associated with 
better continuity of care for patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and a 
maintained lower risk of CAD complications. These differences could be explained 
by the structured and comprehensive provision of primary care services and 
enhanced coordination with secondary care, allowing practices to maintain care 
effectively despite the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12875-025-02917-8
PMCID: PMC12257840
PMID: 40660135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was submitted to the Ethics Committee of the Faculty of 
Medicine at the Goethe University, Frankfurt am Main under the reference number 
470/13. The waiver is based on the principles outlined in the Declaration of 
Helsinki and the German Professional Code for Physicians (§ 15). According to 
the ethics committee, an approval is not required for studies that exclusively 
rely on fully anonymized secondary data from health insurance records. As this 
study does not involve direct patient contact or identifiable personal data, the 
Ethics Committee of the Faculty of Medicine at the Goethe University, Frankfurt 
am Main determined that a formal ethics vote is unnecessary and that consent to 
participate is not applicable in this case. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


94. Clin Exp Med. 2025 Jul 15;25(1):249. doi: 10.1007/s10238-025-01787-9.

Second allogeneic stem cell transplantation using different donors as the 
salvage treatment for acute myeloid leukemia relapsed after allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Liu Z(1), Yuan E(1), Wang Q(1), Fu Q(1), Zhao Y(1), Li Z(1), Song Y(2), Wu T(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant, Beijing GoBroad Boren 
Hospital, Beijing, 100070, China.
(2)Department of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant, Beijing GoBroad Boren 
Hospital, Beijing, 100070, China. songyz@gobroadhealthcare.com.
(3)Department of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant, Beijing GoBroad Boren 
Hospital, Beijing, 100070, China. wut@gobroadhealthcare.com.

Patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who relapse after the first 
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) are confronted 
with an extremely poor prognosis, primarily due to the dearth of effective 
treatment strategies. In light of this critical clinical challenge, we embarked 
on an in-depth analysis of second salvage allo-HSCT in this high-risk patient 
population. Between 2019 and 2023, a total of 20 patients diagnosed with 
relapsed or refractory (r/r) AML received second salvage allo-HSCT at our 
center. Among these patients, 14 had a mean leukemic cell load of 44.2% (ranging 
from 5.5 to 97%) in the bone marrow, while the remaining 6 presented with 
extramedullary lesions. With a median follow-up period of 14.5 months (ranging 
from 1 to 36 months), 9 patients managed to survive in a leukemia-free state. 
The expected 2-year overall survival (OS) and leukemia-free survival (LFS) rates 
were both (45.5 ± 14.0)%. Among the 11 patients who succumbed to the disease, 
the causes of death were as follows: 1 case of implant failure, 2 cases of 
severe pneumonia, 1 case of pulmonary graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and 7 
cases of leukemia progression. Our research clearly demonstrates that second 
allo-HSCT serves as an effective salvage therapy for r/r AML patients following 
the first transplantation. Moreover, its safety profile is relatively 
manageable, suggesting its potential value in the clinical treatment of such 
patients.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10238-025-01787-9
PMCID: PMC12259759
PMID: 40660037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have stated that they have no conflicts of interest and other Ethics Statement.


95. J Antibiot (Tokyo). 2025 Jul 14. doi: 10.1038/s41429-025-00850-7. Online
ahead  of print.

The effect of exogenous glutathione on meropenem susceptibility in Klebsiella 
pneumoniae-carbapenemases (KPC)-producing bacteria.

Kwon DH(1), Vasoya M(2), Sankaranarayanan D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Natural and Life Sciences, Long Island University, Brooklyn, 
NY, USA. dong.kwon@liu.edu.
(2)Department of Natural and Life Sciences, Long Island University, Brooklyn, 
NY, USA.

Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC)-producing Enterobacteriaceae and 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, associated with systemic and hospital-acquired 
infections, have spread globally and pose a significant public health concern. 
Glutathione is a multifunctional thiol-antioxidant compound synthesized in most 
Gram-negative bacteria and crucial in maintaining intracellular redox 
homeostasis. Exogenous glutathione exhibits antibiotic properties and has 
differential effects on conventional antibiotics. Therefore, its effect on 
specific antibiotics needs to be clarified in bacterial species. In this study, 
we investigated the antibacterial activity of glutathione and its effect on 
meropenem susceptibility in KPC-producing bacteria. Two major KPC-encoding genes 
cloned from two different clinical KPC-producing K. pneumoniae were introduced 
into E. coli and P. aeruginosa. Then, the KPC-producing K. pneumoniae, E. coli, 
and P. aeruginosa were used for minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC), 
population analysis, checkerboard, and time-killing assays. The results showed 
that glutathione exhibited antibacterial activity at >10 mM in K. pneumoniae, E. 
coli, and P. aeruginosa. MIC levels of meropenem combined with 10 mM of 
glutathione were synergistically decreased by 8- to ≥ 256-fold in KPC-producing 
bacteria. Furthermore, this combination killed 100% of the KPC-producing 
bacteria at 2 to 4 μg mL-1 of meropenem. These findings suggest that exogenous 
glutathione may be applicable in fighting infections caused by KPC-producing 
bacteria.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the Japan Antibiotics Research 
Association.

DOI: 10.1038/s41429-025-00850-7
PMID: 40659982

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standards. Conflict of 
interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


96. J Gen Intern Med. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 10.1007/s11606-025-09660-x. Online ahead
of  print.

Derivation and Validation of a New Score for Predicting In-Hospital Mortality in 
Exacerbations of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.

Peng L(#)(1), Yi Q(#)(1)(2), Luo Y(3), Wei H(4), Ge H(5), Liu H(6), Zhang J(7), 
Li X(8), Xie X(8), Pan P(9), Yi M(10), Cheng L(10), Zhou H(11), Liu L(11), Zhou 
C(12), Zhou H(13); MAGNET ECOPD Registry Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China.
(2)Sichuan Cancer Hospital, University of Electronic Science and Technology of 
China,, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Guangzhou Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, China.
(4)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, People's Hospital of 
Leshan, Leshan, Sichuan Province, China.
(5)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Sir Run Run Shaw 
Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, 
China.
(6)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Tongji Hospital, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 
Province, China.
(7)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Union Hospital, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 
Province, China.
(8)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, the First People's 
Hospital of Neijiang City, Neijiang, Sichuan Province, China.
(9)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha, Hunan Province, China.
(10)Department of Emergency, First People's Hospital of Jiujiang, Jiujiang, 
Jiangxi Province, China.
(11)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, The Affiliated 
Hospital of Chengdu University, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China.
(12)Center of Infectious Diseases, Division of Infectious Diseases in State Key 
Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
Sichuan, China.
(13)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China. zhouhaixia@wchscu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Since exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (ECOPD) is both common and often fatal, accurate prognostication of 
patients hospitalized for ECOPD is critical. We aimed to develop and validate a 
new score for predicting hospital mortality.
METHODS: Independent predictors of in-hospital mortality were identified from a 
large prospective cohort of ECOPD from 10 medical centers in China between 
September 2017 and July 2021, and incorporated into a clinical prediction score. 
Application of this score was then prospectively evaluated in an external 
validation cohort. The prognostic value of the scores was assessed by the area 
under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC).
RESULTS: A total of 14,007 patients were included in the derivation cohort, and 
201 patients (1.43%) died in the hospital. The 11 strongest independent 
predictors were combined to form the Chronic Heart failure, Age ≥ 75, altered 
Mental status, Pneumonia, Interstitial lung disease, diastolic blOod 
pressure ≤ 70 mmHg, Neutrophil ratio > 85 (%), Anemia, Long-term bed rest, hEart 
Rate > 100 (beats/minute), and blood urea niTrogen > 7.3 mmol/L, CHAMPION-ALERT 
Score, which enabled patients to be stratified according to increasing risk of 
in-hospital mortality: score 0-5, 0.3%; score 6-9, 4.4%; score 10-16, 25.9%. The 
score displayed excellent predictive value for mortality with an AUC of 0.89 
(95% CI 0.87-0.92), which was reproduced in the validation cohort of 3048 
patients. The discrimination of the new score was superior to or comparable to 
that of existing prognostic scores (DECAF, BAP-65, and CURB-65).
CONCLUSION: A new scoring system composes of 11 routinely available clinical 
variables on admission can accurately predict in-hospital mortality in ECOPD and 
shows a trend toward better performance compared to previous prognostic scores.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society of General Internal 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-025-09660-x
PMID: 40659976

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations:. Human/Animal Ethics Approval:: 
The Ethics Committee of each participating academic medical center approved the 
study based on the ethical approval obtained from the Ethics Committee of the 
coordinating center, West China Hospital of Sichuan University (No: 2019–1056). 
Conflict of Interest:: The authors declare no competing interests.


97. Eur Phys J E Soft Matter. 2025 Jul 14;48(6-7):39. doi: 
10.1140/epje/s10189-025-00503-5.

On degree-dependent topological study of line graph of some antiviral COVID-19 
drugs.

Das S(1), Kumari A(2), Barman J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Institute of Science, Banaras Hindu University, 
Varanasi, 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India. shib.cgt@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Institute of Science, Banaras Hindu University, 
Varanasi, 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India.

 A topological index is a numerical value that correlates with a chemical 
structure. A degree-based topological index of drug molecular structures is 
beneficial for researchers investigating in the fields of medicals and 
pharmaceuticals because it is significant for testing the physicochemical 
properties of drugs. Graph theory has proven to be quite useful in this field of 
study. Graph analysis reveals insights into chemical structures. In physical 
chemistry, a line graph has multiple applications. This article focuses on the 
topological characterization of a line graph for antiviral COVID-19 drugs, 
namely Nirmatrelvir, Molnupiravir, Thalidomide, Theaflavin, Remdesivir, 
Ritonavir, Chloroquine, Hydroxychloroquine, Arbidol and Lopinavir. The 
computation of degree-based topological indices is carried out using their 
M-polynomials. Numerical values of topological indices of line graphs and 
geometric representations of the polynomials are shown graphically. A 
comparative study between the obtained values of the line graph and the values 
of an actual graph is presented through numerical and graphical representation. 
Furthermore, we conduct a QSPR analysis between the degree-based topological 
indices of the line graph of certain COVID-19 drugs and their physicochemical 
properties using curvilinear regression models. A comparison is made between the 
squared correlation coefficients derived from our curvilinear regression models 
and those obtained from earlier research. These findings may aid the 
applicability of newly developed drugs of similar kind, in predicting their 
physicochemical properties and in improving the associated QSPR studies and 
hence pave a way to improve treatments against the COVID-19 disease.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to EDP Sciences, SIF and 
Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1140/epje/s10189-025-00503-5
PMID: 40659960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: No Conflict 
of interest statement and potential Conflict of interest was reported by the 
authors.


98. Surg Endosc. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 10.1007/s00464-025-11924-w. Online ahead of 
print.

Restoration of normal anatomy without fundoplication in non-elective 
incarcerated giant paraesophageal hernia repair.

Alicuben ET(1), Luketich JD(2), Levy RM(2), Kelsom C(2), Lloyd G(2), Witek T(2), 
Sarkaria IS(3), Baker N(4), Christie N(2), Awais O(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, 5200 Centre 
Avenue, Suite 715, Pittsburgh, PA, 15232, USA. alicubenet@upmc.edu.
(2)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, 5200 Centre 
Avenue, Suite 715, Pittsburgh, PA, 15232, USA.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, UT Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, WVU Heart and Vascular 
Institute, Morgantown, WV, USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of our study was to examine outcomes following a novel 
approach to management of incarcerated giant paraesophageal hernia in a 
non-elective setting. Surgical dogma has dictated performing a fundoplication, 
but we have hypothesized that this is unnecessary in patients without 
significant reflux presenting with predominantly obstructive symptoms.
METHODS: Patients who presented to the emergency room between January 2010 and 
June 2024 with symptomatic giant incarcerated paraesophageal hernia with 
operative repair performed during the same hospitalization were included. An 
absence of pre-operative reflux symptoms was required. Operative steps included 
hernia sac reduction, mediastinal mobilization with vagal and crural lining 
preservation and primary crural closure. An Angle of His reconstruction was 
performed, and the fundus was sutured to the left hemidiaphragm immediately 
anterior to the spleen. Objective follow-up was obtained via esophagram, 
endoscopy, and CT scan.
RESULTS: There were 255 patients with a median age of 81 years. All operations 
were performed with minimally invasive techniques. The median post-operative 
length of stay was 6 days. The 30-day mortality was 3.5%, mostly related to 
complications of pneumonia. Objective follow-up was available in 230 patients at 
a median of 13 months. There were 13 hiatal hernia recurrences (5.7%): 7 medium 
(3-4 cm), and 6 large. There were 7 patients that had any heartburn at last 
follow-up and all were well controlled with medication. Reoperation was 
performed in 2 patients due to recurrent obstructive symptoms following vomiting 
episodes. No patient required reoperation for severe reflux.
CONCLUSION: Meticulous hiatal hernia repair with crural closure and restoration 
of normal anatomy is a safe and effective option in patients presenting in 
non-elective settings without a significant reflux history. Given increased 
morbidity with urgent operations, elective repair of giant paraesophageal hernia 
should be considered in all patients.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-025-11924-w
PMID: 40659950

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Disclosures: Dr. Alicuben, Dr. 
Luketich, Dr. Levy, Dr. Kelsom, Ms. Lloyd, Dr. Witek, Dr. Sarkaria, Dr. Baker, 
Dr. Christie and Dr. Awais have no conflicts of interest to disclose.


99. Behav Res Methods. 2025 Jul 14;57(8):223. doi: 10.3758/s13428-025-02743-x.

Collecting behavioural data across countries during pandemics: Development of 
the COVID-19 Risk Assessment Tool.

Peters GJ(1), Kwasnicka D(2), Ten Hoor GA(3), Crutzen R(4), Varol T(4), Warner 
LM(5), Algargoosh M(6)(7), Ali EE(8), Anwar M(9), Asih SR(10), Baltas ZF(11), 
Berry E(12), Beyene K(6), Campbell KA(13), Carneiro BM(14), Castillo-Eito L(15), 
Chan AHY(6), Chan SS(6), Cipolletta S(16), DeSmet A(17)(18), Dewi TK(19), Dima 
AL(20)(21)(22)(23), Encantado J(24), Epton T(25), Figueiredo J(26), Fracaroli 
GD(27), Gauchet A(28)(29), Gebretekle GB(30), Gérain P(17), Godinho CA(31), 
Graham-Wisener L(12), Green JA(32), Groarke JM(33), Gültzow T(1)(4), Guven 
EB(34), Hermans RCJ(35), Hermsen S(36), Inauen J(37), Kassianos AP(38)(39), 
Kazantseva TV(40), Keyaerts E(41), König LM(42), Lange D(5), Lauwerier E(1), Lie 
Y(4), Liem A(43), Luszczynska A(44), Marques MM(45), Moore HC(46), Noone C(33), 
Nurmi J(47)(48), Nurwanti R(49), Ozbay ES(50), Palacz-Poborczyk I(44), Pedruzzi 
RA(51), Poppe L(52), Porter LM(53), Powell D(54), Rinaldi BSN(55), Ruffault 
A(56), Schmitz C(57), Scholz U(58), Schweitzer AM(59), Ok YS(60), Shree M(61), 
Silva CC(62), Sokang YA(63), Tam AW(64), Tang MY(65), Tomaino SCM(16), van 
Beurden SB(53), Verweij S(66), Vluggen S(4)(67), Watkins RE(68), Zörgő S(4), 
Roozen S(4).

Author information:
(1)Open University of the Netherlands, Heerlen, Netherlands.
(2)University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.
(3)Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
gill.tenhoor@maastrichtuniversity.nl.
(4)Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(5)MSB Medical School Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(6)The University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(7)King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(9)University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(10)Universitas Indonesia, Depok, Indonesia.
(11)Cerrehpaşa University Faculty of Medicine, İstanbul, Turkey.
(12)Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(13)University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(14)Universidade Federal de Rondonópolis, Rondonópolis, Brazil.
(15)University of Gloucestershire, Cheltenham, UK.
(16)University of Padua, Padova, Italy.
(17)Université libre de Bruxelles, Bruxelles, Belgium.
(18)University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(19)Airlangga University, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(20)Avedis Donabedian Research Institute (FAD), Barcelona, Spain.
(21)Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB), Barcelona, Spain.
(22)Avaluació de tecnologies sanitàries en atenció primària i salut mental 
(PRISMA), Institut de Recerca Sant Joan de Déu (IRSJD), Esplugues de Llobregat, 
Spain.
(23)Consortium "Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red" Epidemiology and 
Public Health (CIBERESP), Madrid, Spain.
(24)Universidade de Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal.
(25)University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(26)Instituto Superior Técnico, Lisbon, Portugal.
(27)SAST - Segurança e Saúde do Trabalho, São Bernardo do Campo, Brazil.
(28)University Savoie Mont Blanc, Chambéry, France.
(29)Université Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France.
(30)University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(31)Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Lisboa, Portugal.
(32)University of Limerick, Limerick, Ireland.
(33)University of Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(34)Istanbul Technical University, İstanbul, Turkey.
(35)LeefstijlLab Arnhem, Arnhem, Netherlands.
(36)Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(37)University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(38)Cyprus University of Technology, Limassol, Cyprus.
(39)University College London, London, UK.
(40)Saint-Petersburg State University, St Petersburg, Russian Federation.
(41)UZ Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(42)University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(43)Universitas Sebelas Maret, Surakarta City, Indonesia.
(44)SWPS University, Warszawa, Poland.
(45)National School of Public Health, Comprehensive Health Research Centre, NOVA 
University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal.
(46)The Kids Research Institute Australia, Perth, Australia.
(47)University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(48)University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(49)Universitas Brawijaya, Malang, Indonesia.
(50)Bilkent University, Ankara, Turkey.
(51)The Kids Research Institute, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Australia.
(52)Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(53)University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(54)University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(55)Holy House of Mercy of Piracicaba, Piracicaba, Brazil.
(56)French Institute of Sport (INSEP), Paris, France.
(57)LimeSurvey GmbH, Hamburg, Germany.
(58)University of Zurich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(59)Fundatia Baylor Marea Neagra, Constanța, Romania.
(60)Dokuz Eylül University, İzmir, Turkey.
(61)Viztar International, Navi Mumbai, India.
(62)Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland.
(63)Krida Wacana Christian University, West Jakarta, Indonesia.
(64)Fastgen Corporation, San Mateo, USA.
(65)University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(66)University of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(67)Zuyd University of Applied Sciences, Heerlen, Netherlands.
(68)The University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.

Tools that can be used to collect behavioural data during pandemics are needed 
to inform policy and practice. The objective of this project was to develop the 
Your COVID-19 Risk tool in response to the global spread of COVID-19, aiming to 
promote health behaviour change. We developed an online resource based on key 
behavioural evidence-based risk factors related to contracting and spreading 
COVID-19. This tool allows for assessing risk and provides instant support to 
protect individuals from infection. The Risk Estimation Questions assessed 
users' location, age, gender, work environment, day-to-day behaviours currently 
performed, and conditions under which these behaviours would change. Users were 
also asked to estimate how often they keep their distance from others in public 
and regularly wash their hands, and the procedures they follow to do so. A 
multidisciplinary research team of more than 150 international experts developed 
the tool. Over 60,000 users in more than 150 countries have assessed their risk 
and provided data. The majority of respondents reported that they almost always 
keep their distance from others in public places, and most participants reported 
washing their hands after touching public or shared surfaces or when entering 
buildings. The tool, data, and results were openly shared to support government 
and health agencies developing behaviour change interventions. This tool creates 
a blueprint for similar digital infrastructure that can be replicated and used 
in future pandemics.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.3758/s13428-025-02743-x
PMCID: PMC12259484
PMID: 40659837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval, consent to 
participate and consent for publication: Although this project implemented 
scientific insights, it was itself developed as a risk estimation tool, not as a 
scientific study; hence, no ethical approval was sought at this stage, and tool 
users were not participants in a study, and so there was no informed consent to 
study participation. The tool only stored anonymised data (i.e., no personal 
data as per the General Data Protection Regulation were stored). Competing 
interests: The authors have no competing interests to disclose.


100. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;15(1):25454. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-11164-x.

Identification of host cell surface proteins inhibiting furin dependent 
proteolytic processing of viral glycoproteins.

Williams N(1), Chabert M(1), Besomi A(1), Silva F(1), Sobiech K(1), Schmolke 
M(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland. mirco.schmolke@unige.ch.
(3)Geneva Center for Inflammation Research, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland. mirco.schmolke@unige.ch.

Proteolytic cleavage by furin-like proteases is a crucial first step in the 
posttranslational modification of various glycoproteins found in enveloped 
emerging viruses, such as SARS-CoV-2 and highly pathogenic avian influenza A 
viruses (IAV). Here, we explored the capacity of host cell proteins identified 
by cell surface proximity ligation to limit the proteolytic cleavage of the 
SARS-CoV-2 spike and the IAV H5N1 hemagglutinin (HA). When co-expressed with 
recombinant SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, Prom1, Axl, and Ly75 suppress its 
proteolytic cleavage, whereas cleavage of HA was only reduced by Prom1. 
Co-immunoprecipitation assays suggest that Axl and Prom1 may form a complex with 
furin. Alteration of Prom1, Axl and Ly75 expression levels in Calu3 cells 
affected entry of SARS-CoV-2 S pseudotyped VLP and to a lesser extent, 
SARS-CoV-2 virions. In contrast, Prom1 levels did not affect entry of H5N1 VLPs 
or H5N1 virions. Our data highlight the differential capacity of SARS-CoV-2 and 
IAV H5N1 to cope with newly identified host restriction factors of furin 
activity.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-11164-x
PMCID: PMC12259872
PMID: 40659811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]